vwap
in today's episode I'm going to teach
you how to trade the sub vwap trap this
is a setup that I really love because
when it occurs it catches a lot of
Traders by surprise shorts feel like
they're in the driver's seat they're all
nice comfy and cozy Longs not really
paying attention and all of a sudden you
get this big breakout shorts are
covering Longs are jumping in and next
thing you know we're looking at a
parabolic squeeze through the high of
day and that's exactly what happened
today now although I like this setup a
lot it doesn't show up all that often so
when we had a good example today I knew
this is the time to make an episode for
you guys and use this as a case study so
this is the stock
scni uh it's it's just a regular stock
and by the way you could use this uh VAP
breakout setup even if you're not
trading stocks but you're trading
currency pairs or futures or something
like that it's a setup that is really
based on this swing between the buyers
and the sellers it's a sentiment shift
and it can create a really violent move
so this ended up going up 125% you can
see right here that I locked up $1
4,279 72 of profit on it which now is
putting me up just about $65,000 on the
month and we still have two full weeks
left so I'm in a pretty good position
here and one of the things I said is
that each day that I'm hitting like a
big green p&l like this I'm going to
teach a mini class based around the
strategy that I was trading on that day
so thank you guys for tuning in I hope
you're hit the hitting the thumbs up and
subscribing to the channel let's go
ahead head and dive into today's class
so I've got the live recording from scni
so we'll go over that in a second but
first we're going to go full screen here
I'm going to back this up and we're
going to talk about the sub vwap trap
okay so these are the topics we're going
to cover five topics going to or five
this is the the I guess five subtopics
we're going to run through them pretty
quickly because I want to jam-pack this
class with content for you guys so the
definition of subv weap trap the pros
and cons trading it tools required to
trade this strategy I'm going to share
with you my subv WAP strategy subwap
trap strategy and then I'm going to tell
you the skills that you need in order to
start trading it on your own okay so
first let's make sure we're all coming
here with a level set even playing field
let me give you the definition of volume
weighted average price vwap this
calculates the average price of a stock
over the period of the day and it
factors in not just the average price
but the amount of volume that is traded
so the way this calculation works is it
takes um the high plus the low plus the
close and then divide it by three and
that gives you the average price for one
period of time and then it multiplies
that by the volume and then it divides
it by the cumulative volume so the
result is you get a plus otted line on
your chart that is essentially showing
you the equilibrium point of a stock
factoring in the amount of shares that
traded so it shows you the exact average
price in other words if we know the
exact average price and we see that the
stock is trading above that price we can
assume that the Bulls are in control and
if it's trading below that price then
the Bears are in control I have it
plotted as an orange line right here on
my charts in the past I had it as a
dotted line which was a little easier to
see but um right now it's plotted as a
solid line so that orange line that you
see right there in the background is the
volume weighted average price so in the
case of this stock it had breaking news
right at 7 a.m. and that resulted in the
stock squeezing from 450 up to about 850
in it was like 15 minutes it was
basically straight up and it of course
at that time was trading well above the
volume average price but then we got a
swing back down some sellers came in and
for the rest of this sort of morning
session we were trading below volume
weighted average price and so it seemed
at that time like who was in control the
Bears it wasn't the Bulls this stock was
just a little too weak for whatever
reason not exactly sure why um it can be
kind of difficult to know the exact
reason why one stock you know has a
great headline and then continues to
stay above vwap all day long and just
grind higher and higher and higher
whereas another one with what is
seemingly good news pops up and then
flushes and is below vwap for the rest
of the day but one of the variables is
whether or not the company is selling
shares so if the company is selling
shares then that's going to drive the
price down if there's insiders selling
shares that can also Drive the price
down so you know that's going to vary
from company to company based on the
circumstances of who's invested in that
company what the balance sheet of that
company looks like so on and so forth so
for whatever reason today uh scni ended
up coming down below vwap and then right
here is where we got the vwap Trap so
the sub vwap trap occurs when the stock
is trading below vwap and you typically
the stock needs to have previously
squeezed up at least 10% but now it's
declined and it's pulled back below
volume weight average price and usually
we like to see that it's failed previous
attempts to break over vwap so the
reason we like that I'll show you on the
on the Whiteboard and we're going to
draw this as the vwap line here so that
means the price would have squeezed up
and then I'll just keep it in green come
back down tried to get back above it
pulled back tried to get back above it
pulled back and then right here comes
back up for one more attempt and then
this is where we break sometimes we'll
pull back and we'll retest and then if
we hold We're Off to the Races almost
always making a new high relative to uh
the previous high of day so the thing
with volume weight average price is that
when we're below it and the price comes
up to it a lot of times it serves as
resistance so price can't break it
shorts are adding to their position here
and Traders who bought the dip down here
are taking profit right here this is
reversal trading when you're buying
really like way down here and taking
profit here but other shorts are going
to be shorting here and maybe not even
adding here but looking for kind of the
all day fade back down which is not
impossible you could certainly see that
kind of move and we have seen it um on a
number of stocks over the years where
you have the pop and then it can't get
back over vwap and it just Fades all day
so it's definitely a strategy for short
sellers to short that fade with a stop
just above vwap so then when the price
suddenly breaks vwap the momentum
suddenly shifts back into the hands of
the Bulls shorts begin covering Bulls
are buying there's an imbalance to the
buy side and a squeeze begins and that's
exactly what we saw today so the pros of
this strategy are fairly straightforward
when it works the moves can be really
big as we saw here from uh 550 all the
way up to 9 a share that's a fantastic
move we can possibly get um parabolic
squeezes through new high of day when
this works really well and the entry is
fairly easy to understand even for
beginners which makes this a really
appealing strategy however there's also
some cons the cons of this strategy is
that there's inherent weakness because
the stock already broke below vwap right
possible causes could include as I
mentioned earlier the company selling
shares investors exercising warrants and
selling shares insiders dumping shares
investors dumping shares selling selling
selling selling selling something is
creating an imbalance to the sell side
yes the stock popped up early made a
nice big squeeze but now it just feels
like there's unrelenting selling selling
selling and just driving the price back
down so when that's the case it's not
impossible you could get a subv app trap
but if the selling is really strong
doesn't usually happen which makes this
setup a little bit more rare shorts may
be more aggressive to try to hold the
stock back if they are in heavy which
means if they take a big position while
the price is dropping well I'll do I'll
show this on my chart here so let's say
shorts um you know a short takes a
really big position on this stock right
in this area they're shorting the break
of vwap and then they're adding on the
pops and they're looking for this thing
to come all the way back down to before
so when it starts to pop back up here
they might put a 50,000 share sell order
on the ask to try to scare off any
buyers well if buyers buy that up then
we get the move higher but you'll have
sellers defending this level defending
means they're putting their orders up
against that level and they're they're
hoping that they're creating a wall that
does not break but of course if that
wall does break suddenly you get that
flip in sentiment and that's when things
can get pretty crazy so you know this is
a setup that has a bit more tug-of-war
it's a bit more of a battle between
Longs and shorts um and the other thing
that's tricky about this is that
breakouts can occur at unusual times
like lunchtime or in the afternoon it's
kind it usually is sort of unexpected
and that's kind of part of what makes
this setup work so well is that there's
a bit of an element of surprise just all
of a sudden boom this thing is taking
off and and it's like whoa what's going
on and Traders are kind of scrambling
shorts are scrambling to cover Longs are
scrambling to get in and when this setup
works really well during regular Market
hours the break of vwap results in a
halt up so it squeezes and halts up
because the stock goes up more than 10%
in less than five minutes it then is
paused for five minutes on a volatility
trading pause resumes and often dips and
rips higher sometimes even into a second
Hall and this is where shorts hardly
have a chance to unwind the position and
this this is a big thing that they talk
about is that now the stock can start
just skipping levels next thing you know
is just pushing up 50 cents a dollar a
share at a time because there's no
liquidity the interesting thing about
the market is that there'll be a
tremendous amount of liquidity right
around the current trading price so when
we have sort of like um let's see like
this area right here we have this area
right here there's a lot of liquidity a
lot of volume in this area but then when
it starts to pull away there won't be as
many people lined up to sell in these
areas because well if this thing breaks
these levels it could make a big move so
we end up having sort of like if we
looked at the distribution of orders not
a lot of orders not a lot of orders and
then more and more and more and more and
then fewer and fewer and fewer so as
long as a stock stays within this range
it's going to be very congested and and
it's going to move slowly but as soon as
it breaks out it'll move fast to the
upside or fast to the downside so we're
looking to trade breakouts especially as
momentum Traders and this can be a
little tricky because the entry
initially is while the stock is still in
a bit of a period of
consolidation so the tools required to
trade this strategy I mean for the most
part it's the same as any other strategy
you need to have some software for
finding volatility in real time so I'm
using the day trade Dash scanners as you
guys know you can see them that that's
what you're seeing in the background
here whenever I'm pulling my charts up
so I've got my scan scaners right here
and of course um scni is sitting on the
scan right now up
41% uh but earlier as it was squeezing
higher it was on this scanner as well
and it was very obvious that this is a
stock to pay close attention to so you
need to have your scanners you're going
to need to have charts of course you
need to be able to plot where the volume
weight price average the vwap is on uh
the actual
chart um and you're going to need a
platform that's going to give you access
to level two data level two data uh and
watching the level two is actually what
gave me indication to take my first
trade for the break of vwap or the sub
vwap trap on scni and you'll see that in
a second having hot Keys even simple
hotkeys just to buy and sell quickly
it's going to make it a little bit
easier um so for me I have a hotkey that
is
shift so I press shift and then I press
the the number one right here shift plus
one right here and that's going to send
a Buy order to buy at the ask plus 15
cents it gives an offset so as something
is moving up quickly I can jump in now
you can script that for as many shares
as you're comfortable with depending on
what your risk tolerance is a lot of
people will set it for like a th000 and
then shift two is 2,000 3 is 3,000 four
is 4,000 5 is 5,000 Etc you go all the
way up to 10,000 if you want whatever
you want um and then I have another
button that is um contrl so contrl uh Z
and control Z is sell bid minus 15 and
it's for full position so selling my
full position at the bid minus 15 cents
then I have another key that's control K
the K button kind of in this area and
control L and this is for selling at the
ask uh so selling the position instead
of the bid it's just ask price to sell
into strength so having even just those
four simple hot Keys plus control key
you up here to cancel any open orders
that's going to get you um the ability
to move in and out of these trades
pretty quickly which is what you're
going to want when you've got a fast
moving stock and of course as always
it's great to have software that you can
use to review your analytics and I use
Trader viiew for that and I don't have
any affiliate relationship with them so
use them if you want or don't use them
if you don't want it's up to you okay so
now let's talk about my subv WAP trap
strategy so Step One is finding a stock
that's volatile all right so step one
find the stock on the scanner oops it's
okay we'll just go like this um so step
one find the stock on the scanner step
two is to figure out what the news
catalyst is now a news catalyst is
actually important for the vwap sub vwap
trap because it gives the reason for the
stock to change from being bearish to
bullish so this did have news out this
morning um we had a headline here which
was great so we had a catalyst that gave
us step two step three I perform my
technical analysis which is based on
reading Candlestick charts so if you
haven't watched my full length episode
on how to read Candlestick charts from
zero make sure you check that out I'll
put a link to that at the end of this
episode um so when I'm talking about
technical analysis I check the following
time frames you'll see the 10sec the 1
minute the 5 minute and the daily chart
right down here so I have four time
frames all for the same stock I start
with the largest time frame first and I
looked at see if there's any nearby
resistance and in fact we did have
resistance right here at the 200 moving
average but it was up around like 850 so
it was a resistance level that came into
play but it wasn't an issue immediately
we also had a day back here where the
stock had 30 million shares of volume
popped up and sold off all day long so
that made me a little bit nervous on
this but it was able to show a good
amount of strength but it's not totally
surprising that today sort of is
matching that
both high volume red days you know as
we're getting further into the trading
session then from there I look at the
5-minute chart and what the five- minute
chart showed me on scni was that we had
made this initial move up right here
which I knew because I had already
traded that and then we got this
pullback and we were consolidating under
vwap now at the time uh I didn't see
anything really more to look at so I
didn't jump into focusing on the one
minute chart or the 10-second chart I
would really only do that if I was at a
point where I was actually considering
taking the trade but I wasn't
considering taking a trade uh at the
moment that you know I sort of first was
looking at this uh but someone in the
chat room um Alexandra she mentioned um
take a look at snci for a dip trade and
I pulled it up and when I first pulled
it up I think it was probably around
this area here and I said well I don't
know it's a little tricky it has pulled
back a good bit it's definitely below
vwap
I don't know and my thinking at that
time was that there were a couple of
other stocks that were moving and that
were obvious you could see we have other
stocks here that are up more than
scni so I was sort of focusing on those
and I got some trades on a couple of
them crkn dats
ivp so and by the way ivp was straight
off the watch list from uh yesterday so
that was a nice trade I didn't make as
much on it as I guess I could have but
nonetheless um had a couple trades here
but then as we started getting a little
closer to the open I started recognizing
that all of the leaders were pulling
back and they didn't really look very
good and I kind of flipped back over to
scni which was on a side chart and it
was sort of right in this area right
here and I kind of what this is what I
noticed it's basing when I say it's
basing I mean it's holding support it's
holding this low so in this area we were
kind of making new lows making new lows
making new lows and then we kind of
stopped making new lows and in fact we
made a little pop up and so that little
teeny pop up there got me kind of
thinking that we're starting to base out
we're still below volume weight average
price but we're starting to base out so
what I decided to do here was to look
for an entry so step four once I've done
my technical analysis and I begin to see
a setup I look for an entry and this is
where I'm pulling up my level two so
we're going to go ahead and jump into uh
the screen here so this is going to show
you my actual trading platform right
here this is from this morning and so I
have scni up on this level two window
it's up 40% here about 4.2 million
shares of volume and right at this
moment there's a spread of 14 cents 560
by 574 575 but right here right in that
moment the bid tightened up so the bid
tightened up there a little bit and now
there's a little green on the tape so at
this point I pull up the chart and I'm
starting to think we might have
something to work with so what I end up
doing is I type my uh order for 1,000
shares and the price is 5.85 and I'm
kind of just looking at this level here
looking at the one minute chart 10sec
chart's not showing a lot because it's a
little bit more thinly traded but I'm
just watching the time in sales and
watch right there when I saw that burst
of order go through I said I'm jumping
in that's it I'm jumping in right here
so now I'm in at 85 my order is right
there so I'm minute 85 and now you've
got 75 by
93 so all of a sudden we're starting to
kind of perk up now and when we look at
the uh the F minute chart and the one
minute chart you can see that the the
sentiment is starting to shift a little
bit right all of a sudden we have this
five minute candle right and the one
minute starting to push up here towards
six now the second I got in the way I
trade I follow a philosophy of breakout
or bailout which means if I time my
entries correctly I I should have pretty
much immediate resolution if I'm correct
at the entry point it'll work right away
and if I get in and it kind of stalls
and nothing happens for a few minutes
that's when I'm thinking I might have
timed this wrong you know maybe I've got
the right idea but it's not going to
work and the the biggest concern that I
had with this stock at the time was that
it was it was not I I was concerned it
was not quite obvious enough so if we
look at the scan and um it was up 41%
here but it was in let's see 1 2 3 4 5
6th Place it was in sixth place oh you
can't see because of my video let me
just hide that video so it was in sixth
place here um in terms of um its
position on the scan I usually like to
trade a stock that's in like first or
second place but I'd already traded dats
got some profit on it these ones were a
little too cheap DJ djt I didn't want to
trade cuz I knew it'd be too risky
mirror was too cheap and so this kind of
left me with this was the most obvious
one for me but I didn't know if other
people would feel that way so when I
first jump in it pops up to 93 but
there's a little bit of a Moment of
Truth here and so I ended up taking a
little profit off the table and then
when it goes up to six it goes up to 606
610 and it's it's now going to give us
that kind of uh push higher and this is
something I noticed right here a 20,000
share buyer at 615 so see that buyer
right there at
615 I had just taken the last off the
table at
$6.7 before that buyer came up but on
the one hand I looked at that buyer and
I thought this is bullish someone's
putting out a buy order to buy 21,000
shares but on the other hand I thought
maybe this is the Trap maybe this is not
going to be a subv appap trap maybe this
is going to be a bull trap and they're
putting that order there to try to get
bullish Traders like me to buy only for
them to dump it so I was a little bit
unsure about what was going to happen
here and we were coming up to the volume
weight average price which is right
around 650 so we end up that buyer is
right there at 15 you see that buyer on
the level two there at 15 so we end up
pushing higher I end up moving an order
up to
659 and I'm starting starting to get
kind of situated now in hindsight I had
a great entry on this and I sold because
well essentially I took my base hit now
I'm just still watching the level two
here um okay so let me just comment for
one second on base hit trading I'm a big
Advocate um of taking base hits and
here's the reason if you get in a trade
and it goes up 10
15 if you pay yourself then you've got a
winner locked up and the thing is it's a
lot easier to predict when a stock will
go up 15 105 cents than 50 cents to a
dollar a share so if every time it goes
up 105 cents you take profit you're
going to have much higher accuracy than
traders who don't take anything off the
table until they're up at least 50 cents
a share now traders who wait till L up
50 cents a share will have bigger
average winners but lower accuracy lower
accuracy hurts self-confidence at least
for me I think it does for other Traders
as well so I end up being in the sort of
mindset of taking base hits locking them
up and then walking away now here's the
problem that buy order got pulled it
didn't fill you see the order flow here
no one filled 20,000 shares to the sell
side that buy order just disappeared so
that's when I started getting a little
bit I was a I I was a little skeptical
about what was going on there little
shady little something was a little
funny but you know it is kind of holding
up and it's moving towards vwap so I'm
like you know we're moving in the right
direction so it pushes up here to 35 it
goes up to 49 I take a trade right up
here and now I'm trying to take that
break through the high so now we've got
680
698 and I'm looking for that squeeze up
to seven so now you see all of a sudden
I've scaled into a bigger position
10,000 shares and I'm looking for that
squeeze on this up through what well at
that time my target was a retest to the
highest day so if we look at the one
minute right here I was looking for a
push straight up to $8 but this is what
ended up happening it squeezed up to
about 720 and then it drops down then it
comes back up to 720 and it drops down
comes back up to 720 and it drops down
so right here at 720 we had clear
resistance but we were holding support
more or less at volume weight average
price and I think again I'm little so I
noticed that this stock has warrants at
$6.50 a share and so that made me start
to wonder if um we were dealing with an
issue here um with insiders selling
these or with the comp with with people
selling these warrants so I'm not sure
we may see news later in the day to that
effect um we may not but nonetheless so
I end up taking that trade uh I'm in
nice shape here but it ends up dropping
back back down so I stop out it pulls
back for a little bit and then we come
back up so we retest vwap and then we're
looking for that curl back up and
through this area really I just kept
trading it and buying dips and taking
breakouts but look right here um we just
had that 20,000 share buyer back again
right so back again there at 675 and and
this is why I was just like you know is
this thing going to work so now we come
up here to
$7 I'm adding for the break of seven and
I'm like let's go finally we get the
break of seven so now once again I'm
back in with 10,000 shares again and
we've got 685 on uh as my entry we're
showing 709 by 711 and this is what I
finally wanted I was like yes let's pull
away here let's get that squeeze up to
758 or higher but you know what happened
once again it kind of stalled out it
ends up pulling back so then when it
finally comes back up at the open
naturally I was a little cautious about
it it was not it was feeling like not
trustworthy but then finally it ends up
ripping and so you can see here I just
end up taking small trades as it pushes
higher but this is a stock that um there
was definitely some tug-of-war going on
with it I mean like it was moving higher
and I got some nice trades in here and
worked my way up to you know 14,000 on
the day but it just it did even in spite
of the break of vwap it just had this
sort of inherent weakness in it and
actually here let's back this up
[Music]
um so let's watch this so right here
snci is squeezing up there's 84 on the
offer so I end up taking some profit and
then watch this
flush I think these flushes were
happening cuz there were there was
someone inside I don't know just
pressing the cell button watch this whoa
dollar a share drop a dollar a share in
one candle like what is going on so that
ended up being kind of the problem and I
think again this highlights some of the
inherent risks with trading a stock that
has previously broken below V app it
just shows that clearly there's a bit of
a struggle going on you end up on the
one minute having um that pattern that
that I often call sort of the the devil
horns right there those two top tals a
nasty rejection and then further selling
so I am concerned that we may see some
news out later today of exercising
warrants and the thing is they they'll
they'll put out the news that they
exercise during the day and then that
goes back and explains the price action
but I could be wrong it could just be I
don't know something else that's causing
the selling I I don't know for sure but
it's just there's obviously a lot of
selling on this one so you know I think
for for me at the end of the day I've
got to review my metrics I've got to
analyze them carefully and to get a
better understanding of the skills you
need to trade this strategy essentially
it's not a lot different from trading in
general the biggest thing is you need
the discipline to cut your losses
quickly when you're trading something
that's against the trend and when you're
trading something that is is against
vwap below vwap that's got more risk and
when you're trading something that's
showing you some of these big jack knife
candles these big reversals you know
that can result in some big losses so
you got to be a little bit careful not
the cleanest stock that I've ever traded
but locking up some nice profit today
and I'm going to try to do it again
tomorrow and hey those of you guys that
want to join me I will put a link right
here I'll pin it to the top of the
description and in the comments for a
two-e trial so you can trade over my
shoulder for the next two weeks you can
use the software the charts the scanners
you'll have access to the chat room I
broadcast and our Newsfeed and you can
see what it's like to be a member of the
warrior trading Community we like to
think that we are the number one home
for momentum Traders so come on and join
us and thank you as always for tuning in
I hope you hit that thumbs up I want to
remind you as always in case I had
already said it trading is risky my
results are not typical and there's no
guarantee you'll find success whether
you trade with me or you learn on your
own so please manage your risk take it
slow and I'll see you for the next
episode here tomorrow hopefully we have
another really solid day tomorrow
morning all right I'll see you guys
tomorrow
