SHORT 
in today's episode I'm going to give you
the step-by-step guide of how to short
as a beginner now it doesn't matter if
you're trading stocks Forex
cryptocurrency or Futures with most
financial instruments you can create a
short position if you'd like and when
you are short you will profit as the
price declines now Short Selling Is Not
A New Concept in the market it's
actually been around for over 400 years
and it's allowed investors and Traders
alike to speculate and profit when they
think the price of a financial
instrument is going to drop so let's go
ahead and jump into the slide deck and
I'm going to walk you through how this
works when you create a short position
you essentially have a negative position
on whatever instrument that you're
trading as you can see right here on
Tesla I have negative 800 shares this is
the exact opposite of what long-term
investors like Warren Buffett would do
they buy and then they have a positive
position and they'll profit as the price
goes up but when you have a negative
position you profit when the price goes
down so how does that work well it it
requires understanding a bit of the
terminology of Short Selling and the
first is the concept of borrowing all
right so what you have to do to create
this negative 1,000 share position just
as an example is you have to borrow
these shares from someone who owns them
so you've got your broker here this is
the broker where you're trading and your
broker of course has you know Millions
potentially of clients now one of their
their clients most likely is holding
shares of whatever you're wanting to
short so this is client number one over
here and let's just say they're holding
1,000 shares of let's say GameStop all
right they're holding a th000 shares of
GameStop so what the broker does is
because the client is holding those
shares with that firm the broker borrows
these shares from that client and lends
them to you you then take those shares
and you sell them on the open Market
when you press the sell button you
create a negative position so to create
a short position you can actually just
simply press the sell button when you
sell you sell and since you don't
already have a position your position
goes into the negative now this is
something that when I was first trading
I had a hard time getting my head around
because sometimes I would buy a stock
let's say 800 shares and then I'd press
the sell order to sell a th000 shares by
accident and all of a sudden I'd be like
wait I'm short 200 shares and it's
possible to flip from long to short so
it is something to be careful of because
many people will accidentally begin
shorting just because of this ability to
flip from long to short so nonetheless
back to our whiteboard here you've
borrowed the shares from this client now
of course you don't know who that client
is or who that uh customer is the broker
handles all this on the back end and
what the broker will do is they'll
actually give this client a little bit
of interest in their account for letting
the broker borrow those shares and lend
them out to other people and what you
end up paying is a fee it's called a
borrowing fee and the borrowing fee is
what the broker charges you and of
course they keep a percentage of that
for themselves and then the rest goes to
this client right here so let's say you
short a stock at we'll use Easy numbers
let's just say you short a stock at $10
a share and you short a th000 shares you
now have a position that is valued at
$10,000 right it's 10, ,000 position so
if the price goes down to let's say $5 a
share what you have to do is you have to
buy back a th000 shares to give them
back to your broker who's then going to
give them back to their client so you
have to buy back a th000 shares at some
point because you've borrowed these and
you can't borrow them indefinitely so
you buy back a th000 shares and when you
buy a th000 shares a th000 shares time
$5 a share is $5,000 so you buy back for
$5,000 you give them to your broker he
gives back to the client or she gives
them back to the client and you get the
Prof the profit of the difference so the
profit of the difference in this example
is $5,000 you've made a 50% return in
this case this is a great return on the
$10,000 initial position but let me be
perhaps the first to warn you that short
selling is a sword that cuts both ways
because let's just say for instance that
the price does not go down and in fact
let's say the price goes up let's say
the price goes up to to $40 a share
let's say this company whatever it is
has great news the price goes up to $40
a share you're in at 10 so you still
have to buy back those shares you buy
them back at 40 that costs you
$40,000 $40,000 and you now have lost on
this position and for what it's worth
you've lost more than you could have
ever made because the most you could
have ever made is if the stock went to
zero you would have made $10,000 but
instead you turned a$1 ,000 position
into having to buy back 40,000 shares
you've lost 30 grand that's obviously
bad so this is one of the biggest risks
with short selling you can actually lose
an infinite amount of money and this
probably helps you understand why a
stock like GameStop cost some of the
hedge funds like Melvin Capital billions
of dollars in losses because they
created these negative positions to the
tune of hundreds of thousands maybe
millions of shares and then when they
had to buy them back at incredibly
inflated prices they locked up massive
losses now big firms like that can use
different strategies to hedge their bets
and when they hedge they reduce their
downside risk but for most retail
Traders like you and I we're not going
to be holding positions long enough to
create a hedge especially if you're day
trading you're just getting in you're
getting out you're getting in you're
getting out but it's definitely
important to be aware of the fact that
with short selling you do have the
potential to lose far more than you can
gain so it is a risky strategy far risky
iier than buying to the long side let's
talk about a few of the other terms
around Short Selling okay so we already
talked about borrowing borrowing is when
you borrow and we talked about the
borrowing fee that your broker will
charge you these fees by the way are
charged on a perday basis so each day
that you continue to hold this position
you're going to have to pay your broker
that fee now a common fee is uh 10 cents
per share so 10 cents per share with 1
th000 shares you're going to be paying
$100 per day to borrow this stock let's
just say and so you know if you if
you're holding it for 10 days 15 days 20
days all of a sudden you're spending
$2,000 $3,000 on borrowing fees well how
much do you really stand to gain if you
spend 20% of the potential profit on
borrowing fees then that starts to not
work but for active day trading if you
borrow and it's just for one day then
you'd pay a 100 bucks and if you get
this kind of move here from 10 down to
five in one day then $5,000 of profit
versus $100 in borrowing fees that's an
equation that most people are going to
be pretty comfortable with but something
that's interesting to know is that there
are some stocks where you actually don't
have to pay a borrowing fee those stocks
are called easy to borrow now an easy to
borrow stock will'll typically have an E
with a green on it's a it's an e that's
in green right here um well that
marker's gone that's okay or it says e
uh t
B easy to borrow either of these two
phrases indicate that the stock is easy
to borrow and when a stock is easy to
borrow your broker has so many clients
that have shares of it they can get
shares and lend them out to you and they
don't make you pay a borrowing fee now
why would they not make you pay a
borrowing fee remember your broker makes
money when you trade they want to
encourage you to trade a lot so they're
only going to charge you a fee the
borrowing fee when the shares are
particularly hard to come by when
they're hard to borrow they're going to
start charging people fees but when
they're easy to borrow and there's lots
of shares available they'll make them
easy for you to trade no fees so stocks
typically that are easy to borrow will
be large cap stocks certainly an index
like the S&P 500 easy to borrow stocks
like Ford Bank of America General
Electric these are easy to borrow Tesla
Netflix easy to borrow they're big
companies meta Facebook easy to borrow
stocks that are going to be harder to
borrow are going to be usually small cap
stocks um GameStop during the initial
move in 2021 was hard to borrow uh it
became easy to borrow in 2024 a lot of
small cap stocks that have the potential
to go up 200 300 400% in one day are
very hard to borrow and you could end up
paying as much as a dollar per share
which means if you want to borrow a th
shares you actually have to pay ,000 in
uh borrowing fees which is kind of
absurd at a certain point so the the
cost to borrow um is definitely a
challenge now we've got the the term of
borrowing and we've got easy to borrow
and then we have what's called hard to
borrow so if a stock is hard to borrow
then what it means is that your broker
has to go look for shares and so on my
platform hard to borrow is going to have
an L which stands for locate um sorry
locate sometimes it's hard to write
while I'm talking all right so locate L
for locate that's going to show that
this is a stock that is hard to borrow
so the broker at that point can then go
try to locate shares for you and in my
platform I actually have a window that
is a uh it's a locate window so you type
in the stock you press search and the
broker will search digitally and then
comes back and tells you yep I can find
the shares and this is how much they
cost do you want them and you can click
yes I accept I'll pay that borrowing fee
or no I don't want it so let's say you
accept the borrowing fee and you create
this negative position all right so
we'll go back to our example here you've
created a negative position all right so
you borrow the stock you created a
negative position of 1,000 shares you
hold it whatever it is you're in at $10
a share you buy back at let's say $7 a
share we do seven right there that's
fine um so in this case right here when
you buy back this is is called covering
so you're covering your short position
right so you're buying back the shares
so the concept of covering is just to
replace uh the shares that you already
borrowed so in the case of the
relationship with the broker here when
you cover they then give the shares back
to the original person that they lent it
from and you know although this is all
in a very digital Market they do have to
be able to account for what happens to
these shares we during 2021 uh heard a
lot about the concept of naked Short
Selling and naked Short Selling refers
to the practice where the broker gives
you shares to short without first
borrowing them from anyone and then
there's um apparently there was an
override ride key they would press F1
and they would say um re you know they
couldn't find shares but they had reason
to believe they were available so
basically someone would say I want to
borrow shares and they couldn't find the
shares in the moment but they had reason
to believe they were available so they'
press the F1 key they'd give that client
the shares that they wanted so they
could short it and then they'd go find
the shares later but what we ended up
finding out was that in fact a lot of
times they don't end up finding the
shares later so they just let you
basically short a stock and the problem
problem with this is that if you let a
lot of people sell and it's not based on
another person's position you could
actually have more selling volume than
there is buyers in the market and what
that can do is it can create a stock to
drop significantly because it creates an
imbalance to the cell side that's
unnatural so this practice of naked
Short Selling is illegal Brokers are not
allowed to do it but as We Know brok ERS
some of them motivated by money and
encouraging U their clients to just
trade actively and their traders to be
very active created this override button
so there have been another a number of
fines related to this practice it's
supposedly cleaned up but it may still
continue to happen now for you as a
regular retail Trader you're not in the
loop of what your broker is doing to get
these shares available to you so you
don't have to worry you know if your
broker's doing something it's the broker
that would get fined it wouldn't be you
individually because we as retail
Traders when we press the locate button
to borrow shares we don't know where
they come from right we just assume that
the broker is doing it the right way and
and most likely they are but I just
thought I'd mention it since it's sort
of on the topic so the concept of Short
Selling in this scenario here really is
quite simple the areas where it gets
risky is when you're shorting something
that has the potential to go well we
would say parabolic and so I'm going to
show you um an example here of a couple
of charts that I think will just help
highlight the risk of Short Selling now
hey by the way if you want to learn more
about the strategy that I do trade every
single day you can download my small
account strategy PDF it's going to be
pinned at the top of the comments Linked
In the description and this is something
you can Implement in your own trading as
always I encourage you to practice in a
simulator before you trade real money
but you can learn more about the
strategy that I'm trading every single
day something that a lot of short
sellers will do is they will short
stocks as they are moving higher so
essentially if you have something that
is moving up very quickly which is
common in volatile markets you'll see
the candles are squeezing up higher and
higher and higher we know that we're
getting really extended and so what
short sellers will often do is they'll
take a starter into these positions into
this move higher so they'll short a
little here a little bit more here a
little bit more here a little bit more
here and the reason they're doing that
is because they know that when stocks
get really extended like this often
they'll sort of have this final top and
then they'll have a big drop and if you
wait for this moment to take your
position you might not get filled to
like down here down here and then you
end up missing a lot of the profit
because these are the spots where they
want to be buying to cover some of the
position for a profit so the practice of
shorting into strength is very common
now inversely there are people uh who
trade to the long side who will buy into
week weakness so either buying down here
or the sort of exactly inverse chart of
something that's been declining for a
long time and they're buying for the
reversal now I'm not personally a big
fan of reversal trading because I find
it a lot easier to trade with a uh
existing Trend buying pullbacks and
riding momentum higher than to try to
predict a reversal but nonetheless this
is a popular strategy that a lot of
short sellers engage in and it works and
works and works until it doesn't so this
is an example of a stock that literally
went from $20 a share to over
$2,500 a share which is an insane move a
5,000 share short position would have
produced a loss of $ 122.5 million a
just a 10,000 share short position could
have produced a loss of $25 million so
one of the things that I am a firm
believer in is that I never want to
empower one trade to end my career ever
and so for that reason I do not short
stock that's not my practice it's not my
strategy because I feel like the risk is
simply too high now you can argue well
look you can use a stop loss you can
control your losses with stops and while
that's true what we also know is that
Brokers will autol liquidate you if your
account exceeds loss the amount that's
in your uh balance and they can also
autol liquidate you if the original
client asks to redeem their shares which
means you can get pulled out of position
and forced to close it now as we know
GameStop resulted in Melvin Capital
losing
$6.8
billion this is an incredible amount of
money to lose so just because there's
institutional traders that have a lot of
experience they are not immune to this
happening to them so waiting for the
reverse to begin to me feels safer but
that does mean chasing a little bit of a
drop and potentially dealing with what's
called short sale restriction now I'll
talk about short sale restriction in
just a moment but I want to show you
another example here of a stock that was
declining ing selling off it dropped
from $30 a share all the way down to 12
which was really incredible and so if
you were shorting this and you had a a
position on this to the short side you
would have been up potentially with
5,000 shares 50 Grand 60 Grand maybe 75
grand depending on what your average was
could have been a huge winner and then
all of a sudden the stock bounces up to
1250 and opens at 25 and is halted up a
halt up occurs when there's more buyers
than sellers well what ended up
happening on this stock was it resumed
at
$500 a share this is Unthinkable almost
a glitch in the market but in the stock
market there are no refunds and if you
took a 5,000 share position you could
have had an instant 22.4 million loss
10,000 shares $4.8 million loss so the
realization I share this with you
because I want you to understand the
very real risk of shorting stocks now
you can try to short safely and there's
certain stocks are going to be safer
than others but just don't lose sight of
the fact that shorting is a risky
strategy in fact it requires you to have
a margin agreement with your broker a
margin agreement states that if you lose
money you will pay the broker back and
so if you lose $2.5 million you're now
on the hook to your broker and that's a
really scary thing and I would never
want to see that happen to any Trader so
short selling it's a practice that's
been around for a long time but it's
also led to the demise of many Traders
far bigger than yourself far bigger than
me in fact the demise of large hedge
funds so trade cautiously manage your
risk and as always if you enjoyed this
episode I hope you hit that thumbs up
and I hope you subscribe and I'll see
you for the next one real soon
