CANDLESTICKS
in today's episode I'm going to share
with you the signals that I look for
that tell me when to buy when to hold
and when to sell now I have a perfect
example from today we had a stock that
basically perfectly met my criteria for
being the right type of stock trade I'm
going to break down those criteria in
today's episode and I actually took one
trade on the stock but I wasn't
impressed with the price action and so
as the chart was forming it was creating
a pattern and a bit of a setup and I
began to think maybe I should get back
in but I actually saw a very specific
signal that told me not to get back in
and I didn't I followed that signal and
as a result I saved myself what would
have undoubtedly been an unnecessary
loss experience in trading which is
something I have a lot of generates a
level of educated intuition I have a gut
feeling of when things are going to work
and when they're more likely to fail now
I'm not right 100% of the time but I do
have an edge in the market and part of
this is the result of all the experience
that I have my hope for these episodes
is that I'm able to help you piggyback
off of my experience by sharing with you
these subtle signals that I see that
sort of get my hair standing on end and
help me recognize wait a second this is
a this is a setup that's a trap I have
to step back and wait for a second
because what I'm about to show you was a
hands down absolute trap and I saw begin
Traders fall into it my hope is that you
can avoid falling into these traps in
the future so let's go ahead and jump in
to today's episode I want to start by
making sure we're all on the same page
when it comes to stock selection so I'm
going to break down my criteria for you
and I'm also going to share with you
some of my bonus criteria by the way
there will be a link pinned to the top
comment and Linked In the description if
you want to download my stock selection
criteria as a PDF you can print it out
you can have it on your desk and if
you're learning to trade momentum the
way I trade it then you should be
definitely using this criteria to help
you identify stocks that are worthy of
trading from stocks that you should
completely leave alone okay so let's
jump into it now the stock that we're
going to be doing a deep dive on today
met my criteria from this perspective
right here number one the price was
between 2 and 20 this is the price range
where we typically see the most momentum
we see the cleanest moves uh number two
the price was already up 10% which is
good because that means it's fairly
obvious it's getting some attention it's
breaking the standard deviation of what
most stocks are doing number three the
relative volume was five times which is
good I like to see higher relative
volume because that helps me understand
that today is a significant event
compared to what's normal for the
company I like to trade stocks that are
experiencing heightened volatility and
usually that volatility requires a high
level of volume that's above average
number four that's typically brought in
by some type of breaking news event a
catalyst and that was the case today now
these four items here these are all um
characteristics of high demand so I'll
just put a d here for demand these are
all indicative of a stock that has a
very high demand breaking news the price
the percentage change the relative
volume and this right here is Supply and
now we're talking about the supply and
demand imbalance Supply is the number of
shares available to trade it's the float
and so the float on the particular stock
that we're going to be looking at today
was 1.3 1.3 million shares so it's a
very small float the float is created
when a company does its initial public
offering now the float can change over
time from the number of shares they sell
during the IPO a company could do a
secondary offerings and sell more shares
onto the market they could also do
BuyBacks and they can do stock splits
traditional splits and reverse splits so
the float can change the the best way to
know with certainty what the current
float is today is to look at the most
recent quarterly earnings statement
which will say the number of shares
outstanding and then check to see if
there have been any news events between
that statement and today's date that
would have changed the float generally
speaking you the market data vendors
that we use are pretty accurate with
showing the float so this is the stock
selection criteria these are the five
things that I I pretty much must see in
order to consider taking a trade now
we've got some bonus criteria here on
the back the bonus criteria is number
one if the stock is without a doubt
obvious in order for me to consider a
stock to be obvious it usually has to be
like the number one leading percentage
gainer in the market also leading in
terms of volume this can be tricky
because sometimes you'll have a stock
that is the leading percentage Gainer
but it doesn't have a lot of volume so
then is it really obvious other times
you'll have a stock that um is maybe the
fourth leading percentage Gainer but has
a ton of volume so it's like trying to
figure out which is obvious is a
combination of which is the number one
leading Gainer but which stock also has
the most volume because ultimately
volume is communicating what's obvious
to other Traders uh it's also a bonus
criteria if a stock is a recent reverse
split uh this one was a recent reverse
somewhat recent reverse split a recent
IPO these are can be particularly
powerful setups a blue sky is when a
stock is at all-time highs and number
five if the stock Falls within a hot
sector hot sectors VAR
from you know time to time what's hot
today may not be hot 6 weeks or a month
from now or whatever the case is 6
months from now but whatever's hot right
now if a stock is in that sector and is
also obvious if it's also recent reverse
split that's when you can get kind of
the perfect storm here which is
sometimes we'll see a stock that is the
most obvious it's also a recent reverse
split and it's also a hot sector you
wouldn't typically have a recent reverse
split and a recent IPO or recent reverse
split and a blue sky setup that that's
not going to be very common but it is
possible that you could have three out
of the five bonus criteria and when
that's the case well this is definitely
a stock that's going to very closely
meet our criteria plus the bonus
criteria so it's something I definitely
want to pay attention to okay so the
stock that we're going to do the Deep
dive on today dtss met really all of
these criteria everything checked out
except for one very important thing
everything we're talking about here this
is more or less absent the chart right
the way the chart looks isn't really
factoring in to stock selection stock
selection is focusing first just on the
vehicle on the actual stock we're
looking at and whether or not it meets
the criteria for being worth trading but
then we have to look at the chart and so
when we look at the chart that's when
things in the case of dtss start to
change so we're going to get zoomed in
here um first on the one minute I'm
actually going to play for you my
commentary that I gave this morning
while I was trading it before this all
played out now we can see the stock has
declined quite a bit from uh where I was
initially looking at it nearly 25% so
it's definitely pulled back I definitely
had the right call to stay on the
sidelines after I saw this chop but
let's jump back over to the Whiteboard
for one second and talk about um our
criteria from the perspective of getting
into the chart so so this is going to be
ta our technical analysis the previous
criteria are a little bit more on the
fundamental analysis side of things um
not completely but sort of bordering on
that okay so charting and technical
analysis so number one I like to trade
when the macd is open and when it's um
when it's moving up so I avoid trading
after we've got this crossover right
here I'll show you what that looks like
in a second number two I want to focus
on um
clean uh
Candlestick patterns so I'll just do c
Candlestick uh patterns so I'm looking
for clean Candlestick patterns here and
what that means is on the chart I'm
going to look for the characteristic
patterns I trade all the time including
for example our bull flag so we have a
stock that makes a nice quick move up a
little micro pullback maybe on the 1
minute could even be on the 10-second
chart and then for the push higher right
here so I want to see clean Candlestick
patterns um and in other words um sort
of part you know a subpart to this um so
a would be seeing the actual pattern and
then B um no uh topping
Tails right number three we're looking
at volume profile so the profile of the
volume
oops profile of the volume and then
number four we're going to look at
Market depth so this is where we're
starting to get into a little bit more
of the weeds but these all create those
subtle buy or sell signals okay so if we
jump back onto the chart here the first
thing that I'm going to point your eye
to is um the original shape of these
candlesticks so without even looking at
um we could just um I'll just minimize I
I'll just let's see get I'll just close
it for a second I I'll hide it and we'll
we'll bring it back let's see hang on
let me just hide it and hide it so
without looking at volume without
looking at macd we're just going to look
at the candlesticks first and what
you're going to see on this um on this
chart is we have a big green candle
another big green candle and a micro
pullback this is where I took my first
trade on that micro pullback and that
was okay it was a small trade it wasn't
a big winner but that's okay I I was
being a little conservative on share
size because uh of an issue in Market
depth that we'll talk about in a minute
it ends up pushing higher and then it
reverses and comes back down when it
comes back down I noticed that we've got
a little topping tail at the top of that
candle now we break below volume weight
average price which is our orange line
so that's quite a bit of weakness it
does bounce back up but another topping
tail and it goes back below vwap it's
not able to hold it Go does come back up
vwap and now we've got three topping
tails in a row followed by this kind of
rejection and about this time I you know
you could draw this kind of ascending
support line connecting the lows of
these candles with the low of this
candle so we're starting to see okay
there is some support but what are our
candlesticks telling us when we have
these types of
candles where we have this topping tail
a topping tail like this is
communicating a message of weakness
because the price goes up and the
sellers pull it back down right so the
sellers are the ones who dominate by the
end of this candle they're the ones who
are in charge okay so because of that
I'm seeing these topping Tails I'm not
liking it let's add volume in so now
we're going to check the volume and the
profile pattern on the volume is high
volume red candles high volume red
candles high volume red candles high
volume red candles this is a subtle hint
that there is more selling than there is
buying we don't like to see that now we
check the macd we look at the macd and
we see that there's this dramatic
crossover right here and for the rest of
the move more or less the macd is
negative it barely gets positive for a
second here before going back into the
negative so the macd is a moving average
convergence Divergence indicator and
showing that the moving averages are
converging they're moving together we're
going into a period of consolidation and
I said what what could very likely
happen on this is we get a break to the
upside and then a dramatic flush we
ended up not even getting that break to
the upside it wasn't even we didn't even
get that it just eventually rolled over
and basically got crushed so the issue
here on this was that unfortunately we
had we had poor charts we we did not
have clean price action we didn't have
any really nice um good-look
candlesticks that I was able to work
with we had these topping tails you know
we didn't have a nice bull flag we broke
below the moving average we got back
above it macd was crossing over we
didn't have a good volume profile now
let's go a step deeper we're going to
start talking about Market depth so what
I want to do right now is I want to jump
into to the commentary from this morning
I'm going to play that so you can listen
to it and then I'm going to resume I'm
going to pick back up when that
commentary finished so if you're looking
just at the chart um on this stock you
might think it's not a bad looking chart
you can see we've got this ascending
support trend line so we look at the one
minute chart draw the trend line over
here as well so it keeps dipping down
that's the low of this pullback we got a
double bottom there it's kind of holding
up in this area now maybe some people
would draw the trend line like that
depending on how you draw it it keeps
kind of coming up to this um 710 area so
710 the problem is that each time it
comes up it's rejecting so when we look
here we're seeing all of these topping
Tails so it's tapping rejecting tapping
rejecting now I think you know I've
noticed some people who have gotten
frustrated because they keep trading
this and they keep losing but let's take
a step back and ask a couple questions
is this an a equality setup right now
well based on my criteria for an a
quality stock I I would argue that it
it's not a bad stock
it's got a 1.3 million share float the
price is between $2 and $10 the relative
volume on it is
3,899 it has news the 200 moving average
well it just broke above it right now
it's kind of at it but it's not bad from
all of those perspectives is it the most
obvious stock
today I'm not sure that it is um it's up
53% it's got
volume so you know it's fairly
obvious
but from the perspective of taking a
trade on it right now macd has crossed
over right we had this big move up a
dramatic pullback look at the high
volume on the selling candles high
volume on the selling Candles now if you
look at um the level two you could see
on the level two that we're periodically
seeing these sellers stacked up we pull
up um this view here of level two and
this is showing us the to visually on
the chart horizontally so you see these
are all of the orders that are currently
placed on the stock and what you can see
is that right up here at 7 we've got a
wall that's what this um kind of heat
map is showing this is a wall of sellers
18,000 shares at 710 30,000 shares at
720 19,000 shares at 730 so this is a
giant Wall of Resistance right here and
realistically
for it to break this level you need
50,000 shares of buy orders now what
I've seen happen before and this is
really sketchy when this happens is
because you've got a big wall like this
short sellers are going to start to feel
like confident going short they're going
to be like look there's a huge level of
resistance here I'm going to short it
and then what all of a sudden happens is
you get a clear out move the clear out
is where this breaks short stop so you
get a ton of volume that goes through
some Longs jump in and then immediately
it reverses and it flushes back down so
what you end up having are a couple of
candles of really high volume which
creates the liquidity for these people
to dump their shares so they can
actually cancel their orders they take
their orders away the stock rips up and
then as it's ripping up they start
selling its Market orders shorts are
covering so they're selling to shorts
Longs are buying they're selling to
Longs and then when it fails to go
higher all of a sudden everyone dumps
and bails out and you get that jack
knife reversal back down so that's what
I would be concerned about happening now
it right now it's not even at at current
prices it's not uh it's not breaking
that level those sellers are still
holding firm at
710 and we don't really know who's
selling all those shares we don't know
if it's a short seller we don't know if
it's a Trader who's been holding for a
long time uh you know an investor
we don't know we don't know how
sophisticated the sellers are who have
those orders up there if they're an
institution then they're more likely to
use the sort of the tricks that I just
talked about if it's a retail Trader
they may not know they might just be
throwing out orders on this stock and
just saying well I'll just put these
orders out and leave them there but even
without looking into that market depth
what you can see here are high volume
selling bars high volume selling candles
high volume selling candles so in
totality today the highest volume
candles are all red and when you look at
the chart topping tail topping tail
topping tail you look at the macd we
were open but then we crossed over and
we've been steadily declining so we're
in a period of consolidation the price
is going sideways and these are periods
where when we get the breakout it can be
very dramatic you the pop and then the
flush now we could get the opposite a
drop and then a pop back up but I don't
expect that based on um the profile that
we're here of these sellers but the
thing is there's a lot of people who are
buying these green bubbles are people
buying into these breakouts so they're
buying right up here into these levels
and I think it's because they don't see
the depth of the market they don't see
all those orders on the level two so
they keep thinking oh this thing's going
to break this thing's going to break and
they keep getting disappointed they keep
getting let
down I'm not going to get tricked into
that I am sitting on the sidelines now
granted I haven't taken very many trades
today I'm only up 300 bucks which is
just a very slow day but it's better
than being red uh obviously and my focus
right now is trading high quality stocks
and high quality setups we need that
combination of the stock and the setup
so right here you see we're kind of
coming back up to that uh $710 10 cent
level and each time it comes up it's
sort of accumulates and then you get
that dump it accumulates and then you
get that
dump this is just that classic choppy
price action that's going to stop out a
lot of Traders you're going to get a lot
of paper cuts they may not be huge
losses but it's just like small loss
small loss small loss to the point where
eventually you say you know what this is
ridiculous I'm getting frustrated and
you leave you know down whatever it is
500 a th000 a couple thousand bucks and
my feeling is that this is unnecessary
so the first criteria is this the right
type of stock to trade yeah it's the
right type of stock is the most obvious
one today well if we look and sort sort
of use volume as a measure of
obvious it's there's other stocks that
have more volume today right 9 million
shares is not nothing but there's other
stocks that have quite a lot more volume
and they're mostly cheaper stocks or
higher float stocks uh but from a
percentage change on the day you know
54% not bad so it's it's probably okay I
think the real issue on this is that for
whatever reason there is either a group
or a fund or one seller who's just
trying to unload shares and you can see
that you know when this move kind of
first started they weren't there it
pulled back and then they kind of
appeared with their first order and then
the next one came on there was another
one here this one got canceled right
there then this one came up right here
and some of them have gotten even bigger
now you do see there's a buy order there
and there's a currently a buy order here
at 660 that could be a short seller that
could be someone who's buying to cover a
position that they took off of this
level so if we come down to here we may
see a little bit of support uh around
that price that could be a spot to
consider a dip but honestly I'm really
not that interested in trading this at
all because I think it's just when you
see a stock that has this type of stuff
going
on I mean this is just the stuff that we
can see there's more stuff happening
behind the scenes behind the curtains
that we can't even see so I'd rather
just steer clear this and wait for
something else
so it's the right type of stock but the
chart pattern not supporting an entry
it's way too choppy and then the market
depth through the level two is adding
even more context that is telling me
this is something I should just
completely leave alone now the fact is
it costs money to subscribe to these
levels of Market data you're going to
spend more money on it these tools are
more expensive you know it's it's
something that a lot of beginner Traders
won't spend the money on and I get it CU
you know trading you know you want to
keep your kind of burn rate low you
don't want to be subscribing and
spending 500 700 800 ,000 a month on all
these different monthly subscriptions
because it's just going to eat into your
profit so I I get people wanting to do
things on a budget but you can also tell
that when you have more money to invest
in better tools you're going to see the
market through a different lens and that
can be the difference between seeing
something that has a very high
likelihood of being a false breakout and
leading to disappointment uh and
thinking something oh actually this
looks pretty good and and taking the
trade and then being disappointed
afterwards and I I guess if you think
about it like that you might be able to
argue that the money you
save uh you know paying for the tool is
uh is more than you know what you would
have what it would have cost you in the
losses I mean that's
that's always something you kind of I
guess have to make a judgment on and
it's hard to
know really exactly what that is and
that's the same thing that I deal with
with commissions too you know I'm paying
fees and commissions on all my trades
and it's like is this money well spent
or am I saving more than it's costing me
with these commissions H you know I'm
not really sure so kind of it's hard to
know with certainty but you know if
you're obviously if you're making money
generally then you're doing the right
thing so if you got caught up and
chopped out on dtss you know I get it
but just sort of a word to the wise that
when you see this kind of price action
even without looking at Market depth
you've got the topping Tails macd
crossed over so the only trade that I
took was on this dip right in here so we
got this pop we got a little dip and I
traded it was small size because it had
just come out of a halt and it had light
volume and if we remember this volume
the volume on this candle was high
volume and it was red it was selling so
I was like I'll I'll take a you
know I'll take a starter but I I really
didn't get comfortable with it and I got
out very quickly and then I didn't feel
comfortable getting back in So gut check
macd not good volume profile high volume
selling candle formation lots of topping
Tails showing the sellers are you know
pulling the price back down those three
things check those three things that
that you can do on a budget you don't
need extra Market data to do that now
you subscribe to level two data you
could start to see sort of some of the
some of the orders there uh first tier
of level level two top of book you'll
start to see those bigger sellers lining
up right so then you'll be able to
visualize that you want to spend a
little bit more for total view now you
can see all of the orders on the book
and you know when you do that we see
right now there's not a lot of buy
orders down here we've got sell orders
but not buy
orders so you know that's that's
painting a picture for
sure all right I hope that was helpful
for you guys um sitting here right
now kind of looking to see if we get any
other opportunities um because at the
end of the day it only takes one good
trade a day and if I focus you know on
just taking one really good trade each
day I could do a lot better than taking
100 trades a day so it's just quality
over quantity so that was my live
commentary from this morning's trades on
dtss and I my hope is that for Traders
that are tuning in my broadcast all of
our Warrior Pro members that you're able
to benefit and piggyback off all the
educated intuition that I've picked up
over more than a decade of experience
trading the markets and I want to give
you guys a link where you can tune in
for a two-e trial so you can listen over
my shoulder you can even use the tools
the scanners the charts everything that
I'm using every single day and see
whether or not you like this platform
see whether or not you like this
community so if you're ready to become
part of the warrior Pro Community we'd
love to have you check out that link
right below and I'll see you for the
next episode real soon and I'll remind
you as always that trading is risky my
results aren't typical so manage your
risk take it slow and we'll see you for
the next upload real soon
