transcript_vway_macd_supertrnd_tradeline
hello guys in today's video I'm
revealing a simple and very profitable
trading strategy I will go through
everything step by step and try to teach
you every single detail so be sure to
watch the full video to make sure you
don't miss anything but first make sure
you subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you don't miss out on any of our new
videos so without further Ado let's get
started with today's video
for this strategy we will use a
combination of three indicators super
Trend I'm a CD and the v-wap let's start
with the super Trend first as it will
help us to know the short-term trend of
the market
all right so let's add the super Trend
indicator to the chart for adding
indicators to our chart here we click on
the indicators Tab and type supertrain
in the search box
and we're going to use this one here
created by tradingview add it to the
chart
and for this super Trend we must change
the settings so go to the indicator
settings and in the input section change
the ATR link from 10 to 1 and factor
from 3 to 2.
the super Trend indicator is visible
with its two colors while they can be
changed the default colors are usually
red and green when it is green it is a
signal to buy an asset while when it is
read it is assigned to sell an asset the
downside is that a super Trend indicator
is more useful in trending markets where
there are clear-up Trends and downtrends
in price this may not be profitable when
the market is moving sideways and may
give false signals triggering wrong
trades for more efficient signals super
Trends are used in combination with
other indicators
and so let's move on to the second
indicator for our strategy which is the
view app so go to the indicator and
search for v-wap
and we're going to use this one here add
it to the chart
first we need to make some minor
adjustments to its settings so go to the
indicator settings and in the style
section I'm going to hide these upper
bands and lower bands
okay so the view app is the average
price of a stock weighted by the total
trading volume it is used to calculate
the average price of a stock over a
period of time v-wap is important
because it provides Traders with pricing
insight into both the trend and value of
a security okay so now let's add our
third and final indicator go to the
indicator type macd and then add it to
the chart
now go to the indicator settings
and in the style tab we uncheck the McD
line and the signal line because in this
strategy we only need the histogram okay
now that our setup is ready let's move
on to the trading rules but before we go
any further if you want to show us your
support and help us produce a lot of new
content make sure you hit the Subscribe
button and the notification Bell it's
only two clicks but it means a lot to us
let's start with the rules for entering
short positions
so here are the conditions for entering
a short trade first the price should
trade below the view app and the candle
should also close very near to it we
will avoid taking any trades when the
price is away from the v-wap second the
super Trend should turn red indicating a
sell signal and finally the macd
histogram should be read if all the
conditions are met you can take a cell
position you can set a stop loss on
either the view app line or the super
trend line depending on which is closest
to the entry candle and our take profit
would be two times greater than the stop
loss
let's look at some examples to help you
understand
here we see that the price is trading
below the view app and the super trend
has also turned red indicating a sell
signal and on the next candle the macd
histogram has also turned red so all the
conditions are met on this candle we
will enter a short trade at the open of
the next candle
I set the stop loss on the v-wap line
and our take profit would be two times
greater than the stop loss
here the price closes below the view app
at the same time the Super Trend turns
red indicating a sell signal and the
macd histogram also turns red so all the
conditions are met on this candle we
will enter a short trade at the open of
the next candle
I set the stop loss on the v-wap line
and our take profit would be two times
greater than the stop loss
now let's understand the conditions for
entering a long trade entering a long
position is the exact opposite of
entering a short position
first the price should trade above the
view app and the candle should also
close very near to it second the super
Trend should turn green indicating a Buy
Signal the next step is to use the macd
to confirm the upward momentum by
waiting for the macd histogram to turn
green if all the conditions are met you
can take a buy position
you can set a stop loss on either the
v-wap line or the super trend line
depending on which is closest to the
entry candle and our take profit would
be two times greater than the stop loss
let's see some examples
here the price closes above the v-wap at
the same time the Super Trend turns
green indicating a Buy Signal and the
macd histogram also turns green so all
the conditions are met on this candle we
will enter a long trade at the open of
the next candle
I set the stop loss on the v-wap line
and our stop was hit on this trade we
all know that no strategy can ever be
100 accurate let's see another example
here we see that the price is trading
above the v-wap at the same time the
Super Trend turns green indicating a Buy
Signal and the macd histogram also turns
green so all the conditions are met on
this candle we will enter a long trade
at the open of the next candle I set the
stop loss on the v-wap line and our take
profit would be two times greater than
the stop loss
here we see that the price is trading
above the v-wap at the same time the
Super Trend turns green indicating a Buy
Signal and the macd histogram also turns
green so all the conditions are met on
this candle we will enter a long trade
at the open of the next candle I set the
stop loss on the v-wap line
and our take profit would be two times
greater than the stop loss
again nothing in this video should be
taken as Financial advice this is purely
for informational purposes so thank you
guys for watching and if you like the
video then be sure to subscribe to our
channel so that you don't miss on any of
our new videos I'll see you in the next
video
