transcript_macd_chad


hey guys CH trades here so over the past
few weeks or so I've been trying out the
super accurate macd trading strategy and
keep in mind if you're just relying on a
Buy Signal from the macd or a sell
signal from the macd you're probably
going to get stopped out a lot of the
time so what I want to do in this video
is not only show you how the macd works
also these three other principles that
we need to apply to the macd indicator
so since I've been trying this I
literally have not had a red day I've
had a few red trades but overall my day
has been great over the past seven
trading days so with that being said
super excited to share this strategy
with you guys like I said macne is an
awesome confirmation if you apply these
three other things let's dive straight
into it all right as you can see I use
this exact strategy today on my Apex
accounts um I actually took two
different trades so um we had one trade
where I made 200 in five different
accounts and then another trade where I
made 106 in five different accounts as
well so in total I'm up around $1,500 on
all my PA accounts today now let's go
ahead and go into this macd trading
strategy so like I said before there's
three things you really need to apply to
any indicator in my opinion and this is
going to make it so you actually have an
edge you'll start getting to a win rate
where you'll have you know 70 to 80% so
if you just use the macd you're probably
going to have you know a 40 30 50 win
rate depending on what you're trading
but I'm telling you guys if you apply
these other three things and use macd as
confirmation your win rate's going to
really start to go up so this first
thing is obviously the trend you hear it
all the time the trend is your friend
you want to trade with the trend don't
go against the trend you want to follow
the momentum of the market that will
automatically give you a higher
probability of taking trades and if
we're going up and the macd is giving a
Buy Signal right that instantly
increases your probability of winning a
trade okay that's what trading is all
about next thing is volume now the main
reason we want to trade when there's
high amounts of volume and the macd is
lining up right is because volume shows
participation in the market right shows
all kinds of buyers and sellers stepping
in and it's also a great place to put
your stop loss right so if you put your
stop loss below where all the volume was
then chances are those buyers or sellers
who made all that volume is going to
protect it if we retest so it's a great
place to actually put your stop loss now
the next thing is levels okay if we're
trading up but all of a sudden we're
getting into a supply zone or big
resistance area then you kind of want to
understand that okay maybe I shouldn't
take along here if the macd is giving a
Buy Signal because we're at a key
resistance level so the levels are just
trying to tell you where to hold your
trade or where to potentially not take
trades right and that's why if you use
these three things you can see it's
automatically going to give you a way
higher probability of winning your
trades using the macd buy and sell
signal so now I want to show you some of
the trades I took today this morning
using this exact macd trading strategy
all right so if I pull my charts here we
are on ES this is the S&P 500 this why I
like to trade normally normally um I
have a 5 minute time frame on the left
and a 2-minute time frame on the right
now if we look at today where the market
open right on the 5 minute as you can
see the trend was obviously up right we
bounced off our demand Zone and we're
consistently going up now what happened
here is when the market opened as you
can see let's just go into the
two-minute we started getting some
selling now this is very common um you
know typically the first 30 minutes of
the Market opens because it usually
tells you what's going to happen the
rest of the day all right so what
happened here was we sold off we know
the trend was up right so I'm not going
to go short here because I don't want to
go against the trend as you can see what
happened here is we started pulling back
and what happened on these two candles
you can see right here right we had
massive volume come in right we had just
as high as volume as the opening candle
so when we started getting the selling
pressure what happened is buyers started
to defend they didn't want the price to
go down anymore so once we got all this
volume kicking in and we failed to go
down lower right what does that happen
that automatically squeezes the price up
okay so going back to our sheet here
right we know what the trend is we know
that a bunch of buy volume kicked in on
that initial selloff and our supply Zone
was pretty far away so we didn't really
have to worry about our levels too much
plus we also were in a pre-market
support area so this is a level we could
recognize a little bit now the last
thing I was looking for right here was I
was looking for macd as a confirmation
to actually enter my trade along with a
green candle now since we sold off so
fast and we started getting bought up
pretty quick the macd didn't really have
time to catch up as you can see
basically what happens when this starts
crossing right this blue line cross the
yellow line um that gives us a Buy
Signal for the macd right now by the
time it crossed we were already up in
this area so just in case sellers
stepped in again I didn't want to get in
because the risk reward was very bad I
would have had to put my stop loss below
the volume so the risk reward just
wasn't worth it so what I decided to do
is I went back to the trend right I want
to see the trend continue to form so how
do we know if the trend continues to
form well we're keep on making higher
highs and we keep on making higher lows
well that's exactly what happened right
once we broke out of this right we made
a new high on the day we made a new high
from the pre-market so as you can see we
broke out and then what did we do we
pulled back once again and this gave me
the confirmation to actually get into
the trade because what did we see again
right we sold off and what happens big
volume starts stepping in and this
candle kind of Clos as a reversal candle
these are high kanashi candles but if
you look at the normal candles um it
still kind of closed with a wick right
so we know all kinds of buyers started
stepping in here defending the trend if
you also look at the 5 minute time frame
as you can see on this pullback and
lined up right along with this 5 minute
EMA this is a 21 length EMA um from here
I kind of saw the macd was still in a
buy zone right this blue line was above
you can also look at the histogram the
green bars are consistently going up and
then on on a 2-minute time frame as you
can see macd got close to a sell signal
and then it started bouncing off of that
so basically as soon as I saw this green
h kanashi Candle on the 2-minute time
frame this is when I actually entered
the position so I believe I got in at
around 219 and I basically rode this up
to 224 and then um then I fully exited
my position at around
227 on this initial leg up now the
reason why I got out of this trade was
because this was a resistance area I had
mark marked um obviously we broke
through it and now we pulled back to it
and now we're bouncing off it again but
just in case a bunch of sellers stepped
in right I wanted to respect the
principles that I trade with which is
the levels right that told me to kind of
get out of the trade the volume told me
where to put my stop loss and be able to
get in on that pullback we saw that
buyers were defending the trend then
obviously we knew the trend was up and
the macd acted as a confirmation telling
us that you know we're still in that b
from this original pullback where we
crossed um way down here okay as you can
see it never crossed below we're still
in this Buy Signal the entire time now
the second trade I took this morning was
on gold Futures now keep in mind I'm a
little bit new to trading gold so I did
size down a bunch on this that's why I
only made $100 on five accounts still a
$500 trade but as you can see it was
basically the same exact setup right
what I'm doing is I'm looking at what
the trend is I'm looking at where the
volume gets protected right where are
buyers defending based on this trend
okay so we know the trend is up so we
got to see where do buyers defend the
trend okay and then we want to look at
the levels and use macd and a candle as
a confirmation right very simple so
first thing we know is basically if we
kind of zoom out here Trend was up all
pre-market and during the market open
then what happened at around 9:00
eastern time we started to sell off and
we sold off right to this previous
support in pre-market this also lined up
with this vwap area now if we go into a
2-minute time frame right we zoom in
your more as you can see what do you
notice about when we start selling off
right because again this is going to
tell us when we could potentially start
looking to enter the trade this is going
to tell us where we can put our stop
loss right what do we notice here big
volume starts stepping in right all
kinds of buyers are defending this trend
right they're defending the selloff and
that's why all kinds of volume comes in
right we see a nice little Wick here we
start trading sideways after that high
volume so this low is a great place
where I know buyers will potentially
defend my position right so this is
where I can put my stop loss okay so we
know the trend is up we know a bunch of
volume just kicked in we didn't have any
resistance for a while right and we're
at premarket support our next resistance
was way up here so now basically all I'm
looking is for a macd confirmation and a
2-minute green candle CLE right since
we're trying to take Longs here so what
do we do we start trading sideways let
the thing consolidate a little bit the
macd kind of helps us know when we're
ready to really get that pushup so as
you can see macd started crossing right
here at around 9:30 eastern time we got
these green candles this is where I went
ahead and entered my position and
basically I just rode this thing up over
to where we had aggressive selling right
here um obviously I could have held this
longer to our resistance and even to new
Highs but again this is like my third
time in Gold ever so I'm just trying to
get used to it a little bit more get my
feet wet um so I got a little scared to
hold the trade all the way through but
the confirmations were there the
principles were there and that's the
most important part so guys when you see
all these different indicators and new
strategies on YouTube you see this all
the time don't get fooled by just the
confirmation whatever people talking
about whether it's a moving average a
macd EMA line right all these different
indicators out there remember they're
just confirmation you want to always
apply the principles and for example I
can relate it back to losing weight what
is the principles of losing weight eat
less eat healthy and move more those are
the three principles of losing weight
now the macd or all the different
indicators you see on trading view on
YouTube and all the indicators out there
right this is kind of like if you
compare this back to weight loss this is
kind of like okay what kind of food are
you eating okay what kind of exercise
are you doing so sure there's certain
exercise exercises that are more
effective than others but if you
exercise and you don't eat so much and
you eat healthy right you're probably
going to lose weight but then you can
start looking at okay maybe I should not
eat this food I should start eating more
of this food maybe I should do more of a
keto diet maybe I should start doing
more cardio more strength training right
that's kind of the confirmation when we
relate it back to trading okay but the
principles of trading the trend volume
and levels right that's the core things
that really matter with any indicator
you use and real quick guys before you
go I want to invite you to join our free
Discord Community inside of here we have
all kinds of other members that you can
chat with um sharing your trades all
that different stuff and also I post my
levels every single day on the NASDAQ
market and the S&P 500 every single day
right before the Market opens so you'll
be able to see exactly where my levels
are I share my trade Recaps we have all
kinds of resources and all that good
stuff so like I said if you guys want to
join this community it's completely free
and open to the public we don't charge
any money all you have to do is go to
the first link in the description below
or just head over to this link right
here that being said guys as always I
hope you enjoyed this video let me know
if you have any questions in the
comments below and as always I will see
you in my next one with another day
trading lesson
