transcript_macd_smbcapital

when you're struggling to make money
trading the best thing you can do is
make the game easy how you take an easy
High win rate scalp trade to get your
trading Rhythm flow and confidence back
this has been a proven technique
consistently used by top Traders at our
firm and that's exactly what you'll
learn from Jeff head of Trader
development at our firm and Garrett a
senior trador firm in this video I'm
Mike Bella Fury and we're one of the top
proprietary trading firms located in New
York City since 2005 and proud to have
developed number seven and even eight
figure per year Traders watch take notes
and learn from two professional Traders
on our trading desk so you can grow your
trading account we're back and we're
going to talk specifically today about
something that a lot of Traders will
occasionally struggle with and and
you'll feel like you just can't get the
trade going in your direction you'll
enter a trade and it'll start to work in
your favor and then come immediately
against you you 'll enter a trade and
it'll immediately go against you you
know you're doing a lot of the right
things but it just feels like you can't
get the Rhythm the momentum back on your
side and you can't really get into the
flow of the market sometimes um all the
traders that that we work with go
through this I've gone through it I'm
sure Garrett's gone through it as well
we all have a very specific Playbook
when we just feel a little out of rhythm
with the market and we're going to share
one of those examples we're even going
to talk through exactly what the entry
exit stop is for that example and we're
going to give a little insight into why
we have this high probability trade in
our back pocket all the time so to set
the stage for the example first we're
going to talk about why the trade exists
and a lot of times when a Trader is
struggling they're probably chasing
highs or or hitting lows almost always
in a consolidation with an expectation
of what's likely to occur versus
listening to what is actually happening
in the stock so they're entering a
position with an expectation of what
might happen anticipating a break
anticipating a turn anticipating
something and what you need to do in
those moments is just slow yourself down
so really quickly let's jump right into
this setup and into this trade that some
of us will use on the desk and what
we're going to do is we're going to pull
in the macd and we're going to pull in
some specific settings for the macd so a
lot of times on our charts we'll have
vwap and the 9 EMA on this will be one
of those times where you just sense that
frustration and instead of getting up
and walking away maybe ending the
trading day you just know you need to
get a little bit of momentum on your
side so you'll pull up a specific
setting in the macd we're not going to
use standard settings so we'll talk
about that with Garrett in a second but
you'll pull up a specific setting on the
macd and you'll identify the price
action as it's setting up and then
you'll look for this very specific High
prob probability trade we'll even put a
cheat sheet a link at the end of this so
that everybody can kind of take a look
um and and have this as a guide maybe
this is a good trade for you let's jump
into the trade and so what we're looking
at is a a series of price action then we
have the macd on the bottom and Garrett
A lot of times people will put macd on
their chart what are like the default
settings that that come with almost
every platform all right so default
settings are usually
12269 right so that means that you've
got a 12 moving average a 26 moving
average and then the macd which is a
moving average of the macd signal is
nine so we've kind of modified that here
and the way I like to look at macd is
it's just two moving averages so what
two moving averages are you trading
right and then you have a moving average
of your macd line the reason why we're
using macd on this specific trade on
this high probability scalp is simply
because what we're looking for is
actually a continuation trade so the
macd is our best friend in this trade
because we're looking for that momentum
to start and then a little bit of a
pause but then continuation so we say
don't put something on your charts if
you don't really understand what it is
so Garrett talk us through why macd
would be an appropriate uh indicator to
use for a continuation trade yeah so
it's a momentum indicator using moving
averages and what it's measuring is the
distance between those moving averages
and that's the macd line so if we look
on this chart the black line is the macd
line right so when the Black Line's
above that zero that means that the fast
moving average is above the slow moving
average right it's kind of the
definition of an uptrend in some
situations and when it's below the zero
line that means the fast moving average
is below the slow moving average and
then the macd line itself has its own
moving average right and that's the that
red pink line and so when those cross
you can actually kind of spot turns in
the market that's at least the idea with
this and then the histogram which is the
green and red bars on either side of the
zero line are measuring the distance
between the black macd signal line and
its own moving average and that's sort
of giving you the momentum of the
momentum so it's it's a little bit of a
derivative of a of a indicator kind of
added on there and so in this trade
specifically we're looking for this
we're looking to identify a
consolidation period and and we're going
to define a consolidation period of at
least 3 minutes up to you know 15
minutes um and we're going to identify
it visually by looking at the macd line
you know obviously we can identify it
with price but then we're going to layer
on a visual cue of looking at the macd
line and why do we want the macd pretty
much wrapped around zero in this case
yeah I mean zero means that the moving
averages are converging right so that
means that things are tightening up on
that time frame and energy is be being
built right so when it's at zero it's
neither extended to the upside or
extended to the downside it's kind of
locked and loaded like if you're looking
at a chart with two moving averages and
price just starts to kind of go sideways
and those moving averages come together
and price just starts to kind of hold
them like that's the moment that you're
kind of looking for when the macd hovers
around zero so this just gives us our
trade setup we don't actually take a
trade until we actually have the trigger
which comes in a little bit but when
we're looking through charts when we're
trying to find something because we're
just looking for something to work for
us on the day we'll be looking at the
macd looking for this specific again
three to about 15 minutes of that period
of time and we're using one minute bars
here but of that period of time where
that macd is really just kind of wrapped
around the zero line there's not much
going on there and that's our first clue
for this trade so we'll play the chart
for a little bit and and we'll talk
about kind of what Garrett alluded to
which is what happens when you get that
expansion in the macd when when those
two moving averages diverge a little bit
all right so we're going to see price
kind of chop around and then start to
make a move again the highest
probability trade here the one that base
hit trade that kind of gets us back into
the flow and the rhythm of things you
know it isn't necessarily a trade where
we're trading the break of this range
so we're observing the macd but we're
not sitting there looking for that trade
signal quite yet again our entire
mindset and you can practice putting
yourself in this mindset of I just can't
get anything right right now the worst
thing you can do is actually Chase
trades around in that circumstance so
we're going to use a very specific setup
that occurs and we just laid out the
first step let's go into the Second Step
which is this Divergence so you start to
see the macd start to expand right is
that correct yeah it starts to shoot
above the zero line there and they get a
little bit spread out from each other
you can see that the Divergence and then
they kind of come back together here yep
and so once you get that Divergence and
then that convergence and you actually
see the fast moving average is that
right the moving average yeah the fast
line move below the Slow line all right
that gives us our setup now all we're
looking for is using the macd as a guide
we're looking for that cross back up
like we're seeing right now as soon as
you see that cross back up you can
actually enter long your position and
your stop is going to be placed based on
price so your stop is going to be below
the low of where that recent little down
dip occurred so our stop is going to go
just below that just below that little
dip in price action and what we're going
to do is we're going to use the macd as
a guide here so as long as the fast
moving average is above the slow we're
GNA stay with our position we're gonna
allow that momentum to work for us and
we're gonna just hold on to the trade
we're going to let go of the steering
wheel here and we're going to trust that
this trade is going to do what it's
supposed to do as soon as we get that
cross below we're going to exit our
trade so again we've got our stop below
the low there we've entered as soon as
that cross occurs and as soon as we have
that dip below which we just got that's
where we exit our
trade it's a very high probability trade
when you get the components right you
see that consolidation first then you
see the expansion then you see that
quick quick dip back down and then
reclaim that's where you enter your
trade you manage your risk and you take
an exit when you get that cross back
below so again it's really like a
four-step process with the first step
being we identify that consolidation
Second Step being we see that move start
right we can just look at the macd and
see the expansion third is we get that
cross back down below and then fourth we
want we want them both to be above that
zero line but then we want to enter with
that trigger when it crosses back above
when that black line crosses back above
the red line so Garrett can you talk
through the settings that we're using on
the macd here yeah so we're using a
three
95 so that's a three moving average
three period moving average a nine
period moving average right that's what
we're measuring the relationship between
those and we're putting a five period
moving average on that macd signal which
is that red line there so what I love
about this trade is that it outlines the
execution for us right and that's kind
of like I know like when I'm going a
slump and when I just want to get some
base hits like that's really what I need
it's just something to kind of it's like
training reels right it just you just
know when to stay in the trade you know
when to get out you're not wrapped up
into the emotion of you know this has
got to be a huge trade I need to hold
right you're just take your profit and
run you guys know I love trailing stops
right the ATR trailing stop and
different things like this so for me the
way that I would trade this is I would
just find a really strong stock like
that would be one of the number one
things is I want to like look at what's
active today look at what's happening
look at what's breaking out and I want
to pick that right or if the cu's or the
Spy are having like a really strong day
pick that gravitate to relative strength
and then look for this setup and then
kind of let the indicator just tell me
when to get in and tell me when to get
out and you know maybe even put it in a
model because that's the kind of stuff
you can actually put in a model and it
takes you out of that
anticipatory thought process and it puts
you in an opportunistic mindset which is
really the mindset you have to be when
you're trading it's almost like you sit
there and you let the trade fall into
your lap immediately when you pull this
indicator up and put it on your chart
you have the the the settings that you
use in it um it immediately your mind
it's almost like a trigger for you you
know you're just sitting there waiting
you're not trading anything else you're
sitting there and waiting for this
opportunity or actively looking for this
opportunity it's a much better mindset
to be in when you're trading of one of
opportunity focused versus one of
frustration or anticipation or or or
really anything that that ultimately
boils down to being afraid right being
afraid of either a trade not working
immediately or or whatever we have very
clear rules for this trade so let's jump
into our second example all right so
again like Garrett said we're
identifying in this case a stock that
has been consolidating but then we watch
and we notice how let's say you pull
this up notice how tight that macd gets
you have that period O of just being
wrapped around the zero line like it
looks like nothing's going on which is
why we don't anticipate this what if you
bought it on the break and you said oh I
could go now and then it's stuffed in
your face you don't want to be in that
mindset you want to be allowing that
expansion to occur look for that
convergent in that cross and then enter
on that first cross back above and so we
allow that Divergence to occur we let
the price start to explore higher right
and again we need to make sure that
we're just letting this happen for us
we're watching and we're thinking okay
if this does what we want it to do then
I'll take a trade but if it doesn't then
I'm just not going to have a trade I'm
not going to invent something I'm not
going to come up with a trade that
doesn't exist I'm just going to wait
and we see now that we have that that
macd starting to curl back down right
but where is it staying it's staying
above the zero line right and as long as
this cross is occurring above the zero
line for a long or below the zero line
for a short this is an important
component now we have that cross back up
so we enter our position long again our
stop gets placed just
below the price based area right and
then we're staying in the position as
long
as that macd continues to diverge as
long as that macd the fast moving
average stays above the slow moving
average as soon as those cross back
below we're done with the trade we're
out that's it it's just a little high
probability scalp just to get us in the
trade let us stay in the trade right
feel that feeling of I'm feeling the
flow of the market this is exactly what
trading should be you're letting go of
that need to be what do I do with price
here you just let the macd tell you what
to
do from a price action perspective Jee
how many times do we see a consolidation
like that it makes a new high and we buy
that new high and then it starts to pull
in right and you feel uneasy because now
it's back inside the range and
ultimately so many of these end up
holding and going higher and it's sort
of that retest in that go that ends up
being where the momentum comes in and
like I don't know how many times I've
been stuck in like oh this is breaking
out I'm G to pay the high oh no it's
it's dropping now I'm I got a hit out um
now like when we wait for this we
actually have a clear stop and we're
sort of now going to enter when when
usually the momentum comes in because a
lot of times when these things make a
new high they don't just go right away
and that's the whole thing is you've
you've by doing this you simply shift
your mindset from that I hope this works
to now I have another set of checks in
my favor I had that Consolidated
I have the expansion I have that
reversal and then coming back up above
and so this is a really straightforward
trade um I love the fact that really to
commit to this trade you have to commit
to just following the indicator because
as the volume comes in as the price
action continues to drive higher you're
not anticipating when you're going to
sell you're sitting there and waiting
for it to tell you when to sell when
you're struggling that's exactly what
you need you need something as cookie
cutter as you possibly can get you need
very clear rules to follow and then when
you get those rules and and and you
follow those rules that's where you
start to feel that flow back in your
trading you can start to bring in the
other elements of your playbook but
again we just stay with the trade as
long as it tells us to stay with the
trade and then as soon as it tells us to
get out that's when we exit the trade we
have our stop in place we had our entry
based on that and now we have our exit
based on that cross back below so Jeff
are you getting out as soon as it
crosses mid bar or are you waiting for
that bar to close yeah so I don't really
care because the entire concept for me
is we're seeing expansion so if it kind
of even tests a lot of time I'm just out
like I don't need to wait for the the
bar to close a lot of times just the
test alone again this is just a high
probability confidence boosting get a
base hit sort of trade it's sort of like
if you hit a really good hit and and
you've been strug Ling and you get to
first base do you like instantly try and
go to Second like not all the time right
you just want to get on base you want to
get that momentum going and so I don't
really feel the need to like sit there
and say do I need it to Cross or do I
need to wait for the close I can just
sit there and and some platforms
actually won't let you so you have to
kind of wait until it actually closes
but it won't move until it closes and in
that case it doesn't really matter the
same concept remains you're not trying
to capture everything you're just trying
to get the easy money out of this scalp
let's go to our third example in this
case we see price coming off the
lows and this is a really clear example
we'll talk about the setups that you can
really look for this trade in the best
setups that we have that that you kind
of see those setups and those are the
ones you gravitate towards in a little
bit but this is this is kind of exactly
what we want to highlight the trade
itself we want to go through one more
example so I'm not trading this breakout
I'm looking for and looking for
confirmation of the macd starting to
expand and then I would want to see it
start to contract so I'm giving it
time to expand
first as this expansion is occurring I'm
thinking to myself okay from a price
perspective what am I risking if it
pulls back I'm not anticipating how much
it's going to pull back I'm not
anticipating where my stop is going to
be I'm allowing all that stuff to come
in but I'm doing these M mental
calculations I'm determining what might
the low look like here right where might
I be putting my stop that's allowing me
to think about the amount of share size
I need in order to put the right amount
of risk on a lot of times I'm not
risking a lot in this trade simply
because again I just want to get a win
on the board so right now this is a
little bit of a trick it looks like oh
what if the line go be below the zero
line if both of them went below I
wouldn't take the trade but in this case
the cross occurs completely above so you
can take the trade you have your very
defined stop right the stop again goes
right below the low based on the price
action there you go and then we're going
to
allow the macd to tell us when it's time
to exit the position we don't have to
predict
we don't have to
anticipate we can allow the
momentum to die and allow the macd to
tell us when to exit the
trade again from a price action
perspective we get a retest of that
breakout and then it holds right like
again how many times when it's pulling
back if you're really ansy to get into a
trade you're impatient right you you
start bidding in early or you start
paying the offer on those r candles and
you start getting bad prices and then it
goes against you and you're not waiting
for the turn we always talk about
waiting for the turn right and one of
the ways to do that is to watch the tape
to watch the candle that big green
candle that occurred but this macd
signal is sort of like to me another way
to wait for that turn yep yeah you're
you're by definition always trading on
the right side of the V right you're not
letting yourself get caught if you're
waiting for that cross back up you are
in theory and and and as much as you
possibly can trading on the right side
of the V with this so what's tricky
about this trade and why we don't just
make this trade all the time you
probably could but sometimes it varies
in in your risk reward and so when
you're looking at your total portfolio
of strategies sometimes you want to add
this in and sometimes you want to take
it out Garrett talked about two great
situations to take this trade when
something's trending when something's
breaking out of a higher time frame
range when something something's
consolidating
intraday you can kind of sit back and
wait for this to occur you know higher
time frame consolidation big dog
consolidations um you know hitchhiker
scalps you can look for continuation off
of those these are all little setups
that you can wait and allow this trade
to just hit you between the eyes you
take the trade you know where your stop
is again you're allowing price to
determine your stop so you can calculate
your share size but then allowing the
momentum to work for you and as long as
it remains there so we're not using the
macd histogram anywhere in this setup
correct correct I I don't think I've
ever paid attention to the macd
histogram in this setup I'm really just
focused on the lines um it does for a
long you want the cross to occur above
the zero line for a short you want the
cross to occur below the zero line you
know not just the initial move up but
then that continuation you want to make
sure you're identifying that period of
consolidation
where that macd is essentially flat and
ideally flat around the zero line prior
to this because otherwise you're going
to be walking into a situation with too
much variability Garrett what happens
when we're trading this uh or we're
looking for this and we're trying to
trade it out of a period of variability
are we going to get a lot of crosses no
we need the we need the energy built up
in the trade yeah right yeah like you
know you can't have it going all over
the place like right now we get we kind
of have like that initial move that we
traded the pullback for and then it made
another move right so we're not going to
look now to buy like the next cross
because that whole setup is kind of over
yeah in my eyes yeah the whole setup is
over so that's why it's important to
just identify this sit in your seat and
wait you know we hope this is helpful um
lately especially with the volatility in
the market we've seen Traders go through
these amazing periods of growth where
they're making really good trades and
then almost as quickly sometimes
struggle to just feel that rhythm again
and that can be the big determining
factor between how profitable or how how
successful your week is in trading and
your month is is how quickly can you get
back into that flow as soon as you start
to feel out of it you know if you do
this one time or two times just to start
feeling that winning Feeling Again to
get back into that high probability
moment that could allow you to walk into
a really big trade you have to be in the
right mindset when you're trading and
this is just a way to get you back into
that mindset really really quickly so um
like we said there's a cheat she
associated with it I'm sure there's a
link somewhere you know if you want to
learn more about the macd Garrett has
this really awesome video that he did
where he talks through another macd
strategy um you can check it out uh if
you want to learn more about different
types of of Trades particularly scalp
trades or or technical trades you know
Garrett talked about that pullback into
that prior support um there's a video
that I did recently where we talk
through very specific examples again we
talk about where your stops go we talk
about where your entry trigger is we
talk about what your target might be
these are just absolutes that you really
need to make sure you're understanding
so hope this was
helpful
