cammeroon

[Music]
in today's episode I'm going to walk you
through how to use macd in your trading
to help you number one avoid false
breakouts number two focus on trading on
the front side of the move and not
overtrade the back side when the price
action becomes congested this is an
indicator you can use whether you're
trading stocks Forex Futures
cryptocurrency doesn't matter because
macd is a well-respected indicator this
is part of the universal language of the
financial markets that is technical
analysis so let's go ahead and jump onto
the charts I'm going to use a case study
here this is a stock that I traded uh
just yesterday I locked up about $5,000
of profit on it and macd was a big
contributor to being able to to lock up
that profit and most importantly not
overstay my welcome overstaying your
welcome how many of you struggle with
not knowing when to walk away each day
I'm going to give you some tips during
this episode to help you with that
problem I'll even give you some
recommended readings so you can really
dive in now let's look at the one minute
chart as an active day trader I'm using
the 1 minute and the 5 minute time
frames for finding my entries and exits
if you're trading a swing trading
strategy or you're using different time
frames then you can use the macd on the
time frame that's relevant for you it
doesn't really matter because it's valid
on all time frames now Mac d stands for
it's an acronym that stands for moving
average convergence Divergence so what
is it's measuring is when moving
averages are either diverging and moving
apart or when they're converging and
moving together in classic long-term
investing there are significant moving
average crossovers that investors look
at as uh indicating a very significant
change in Trend so if the price for
instance has been selling off for a long
time and then starts to come back up
what you may see is let's just say this
is a long-term chart this is the under
moving average which has been selling
off like this the the price has been you
know sort of down here like this but
it's begun to turn around here what you
would notice would be uh the 200 moving
averages here and then let's just say
your 100 100 moving average crosses over
right here so this is a moving average
crossover moving average crossovers can
be very significant for uh for Traders
and investors because it signals a
significant change in Trend and it's
valid uh both on uh daily charts but
also on short-term time frames so I
think to help you better understand how
macd works and why it's so important
it's helpful to First give you a
foundation in moving averages because
after all macd uh is taking moving
averages as part of its calculation so
let's say for instance we have um uh it
could be a stock it could be anything
doesn't matter it could be an indic uh
let's just say the price is kind of
slowly starting to move up and starts to
pull away here before dipping down a
little bit and then pushing a little bit
higher so we would call this a
traditional pullback pattern that
generally I would enjoy trading
something like this but let's say it
starts to move up here and then it kind
of stalls out and the price kind of goes
sideways through this area let's just
say for instance so the way this would
look on our chart is we would see our
moving averages moving right behind the
price when the price is moving up your
moving average is always going to be a
little bit below because this is plotted
based on the average price over the last
X number of periods now this is a moving
average that I use which is the nine
period moving average so that means each
one of these dots is the average price
over the last nine Candles now if the
price is moving up the average isn't way
up here because you got to factor in the
prices were lower back here so it always
Trails slightly behind now I personally
use exponential moving averages in my
trading and exponential moving average
is different from a simple moving
average you have an SMA or an EMA s SMA
is a simple moving average EMA is an
exponential moving average a simple
moving average is simple because it just
takes the average price over these last
candles whereas an exponential moving
average takes the more recent price
action and weights it more heavily and
what that means is that a 9 SMA versus a
9 EMA will look like this this right
here is going to be the em
Ma and this is going to be the SMA so
the SMA will always be lower than the
EMA because it takes longer for the
averages to move up when you're waiting
more recent price action heavier then
the price moves faster so what we look
at generally when the price is moving up
quickly you've got your short-term
moving averages are going that are going
to move quickly and then you've got
longer moving averages like this the 20
EMA
they're going to move a little bit
slower so the 20 EMA moves slower
because it's taking the average price
over the last 20 candles so it's going
further back and then you'd have an
indicator a moving average that's even
lower than that for instance the 200
EMA so these popular indicators can form
this uh ribbon here in a sense and when
they're all stacked above each other
like this then this is a time that we
would be very bullish on a trade however
what can happen naturally is if the
price suddenly Clines you could have a
moving average crossover when you have a
moving average crossover it's indicating
a change in Trend and the macd is
helping us visualize that in a way
that's much more obvious than having it
plotted on your chart with just the
indicators alone so if we look at our
one minute chart again here what you'll
notice is that I have macd plotted at
the bottom so this bottom section right
here is the macd now I always get
Traders asking me Ross what are your
macd settings so I I make this extremely
simple my macd settings are standard
they are default I do not change them
from the default setting that comes when
you initially put macd on your chart now
most platforms are going to put on the
same settings but I'll double click this
and show you the inputs so you can just
make 100% sure that you're using the
same settings so our fast length is 12
our slow length is 26 and our signal
length is N9 and the source is
close this is the standard macd setting
essentially what this is is it's using a
fast length moving average as 12 which
if we look here instead of N9 it's using
12 instead of 20 it's using 26 and then
the signal length the signal is nine so
it's a little different than the moving
averages that I use here but these work
really well on my chart and this is the
standard setting for macd the reason
that you want to use the standard
settings for macd is because you want to
see the same signals that everyone else
is seeing if you start fiddling with
this and changing it it's going to
significantly change the buy and sell
signals and then you're seeing something
that you might be the only person in the
world that is using these settings so
traffic signals as an example work
because everyone respects them everyone
knows what a green light an orange light
and a red light means but if you say you
know what I'm going to be a little crazy
I'm going to use a magenta light I'm
going to use a blue light all of a
sudden you're going to be off on another
planet because no one else is using that
you're going to crash your car and just
like doing that in trading you're going
to start losing money because you're not
going to get the obvious signals so just
as an example I'll I don't mind here um
I'll just copy this let's see so we'll
just copy and we'll paste so we have it
on here twice and I'll just show you
we'll just change this to like a 9 and a
20 and we'll change the signal length to
like a five right so all a sudden it
looks similar but it is going to be
different now you speed it up even more
you change it to a three or a 26 or
let's see make this like a 52 you're
starting to really change the way it
looks so it may not seem super dramatic
to you but it is the difference between
getting the signal at the right time and
at the same time as everyone else or
being just off so you want to make sure
you're timing the market with other
people the reason here is that the
market is
moving because other Traders have a
belief that the price is either going to
go up or go down they're seeing signals
when they see a Buy Signal they execute
buy orders so you kind of want to make
sure you're seeing the same signal as
other Traders because that's going to
help you anticipate where we're going to
see a move up or where we might see
resistance or where we're going to see a
move back down this is what's going to
help you avoid those false breakouts
beginner traders who don't yet use the
macd are going to be more suscep to
falling into the traps of false
breakouts so this is uh again let's see
sgbx this is a chart one minute chart of
a stock that I traded uh just yesterday
I actually made $5,000 on it this was a
pretty nice move and it began right here
at 9:00 a.m. with breaking news that
came out okay so we have breaking news
that comes out top of the hour and so
initially I see the stock on my scanners
so I'm using these uh stock scanners
right here so I'm getting an audio alert
Bing Bing boom stocks on the scans I
pull it up on the one minute chart and
of course I pull up the level too now
when I first take a trade on something
like this I'm not really looking at the
macd in those first few minutes because
the thing is this is a stock that has
been going basically sideways and then
suddenly has news that comes out so I
know that the moving averages are going
to be spiking up that's what they're
always going to look like when you have
breaking news so if we make this really
really big here which you're going to
see is all of a sudden you've got your
nine moving average moving up you've got
your 20 moving up and your 200 is down
here moving very slowly so what we have
what's happening with these indicators
they are diverging right they're
diverging that in that that's because
the price is moving quickly and so
what's happening with the macd this blue
line is moving way above the signal Line
This Is Our signal line and it it'll
continue to move up until the price
price begins to sort of stall out so
right here the price started to stall
out it started the price rolled over a
little bit we came down to the support
of the nine moving average but what
began happening was our moving averages
began to converge they began to come
back together and that was especially
noticeable right here when the price
broke down because when the price broke
down right there that dragged the N9
moving average back down that dragged
the macd back down and right here we
have a Mac
crossover we have the cross where uh the
the fast line here the actual moving
average convergence Divergence line
moves against the signal line coming
back down this for me is a critical
indicator When I See This crossover I am
no longer a
buyer now I'm going to hedge saying that
by saying that as a beginner Trader
you'll find more accuracy if you're only
trading when the macd is open
there are times where I will take a
trade when the macd is against the
position uh and that's because I've got
more experience there are going to be
more advanced setups and they're going
to have lower probability of success but
when they work they can work well so as
a beginner it's best to focus on setups
that have the highest probability of
success so let's watch what happens
right here macd is against the trade
right here so no nothing in here you
should be trading no trade no trade no
trade and then right here we can get
back in now I'm going to do some
something kind of cool and I'm going to
actually drag this and drop it over this
chart right like this I'm going to go
into settings I'm going to turn off um
the histogram so the histogram is turned
off we've got the signal line turned on
right here and um we could make this
let's see sometimes this isn't the way
to do it um so every now and then I will
do something kind of like this but I'm
going to let's see I'm going to keep it
like this for right now this is this is
what I was looking for um I'm going to
make it a little bit Bolder here and
then I'm going to do the same thing on
this one okay so now we we basically
just have it plotted right here just as
a reminder okay so this as soon as I see
this and as soon as I see it curling
here I know what's happening I know this
is getting ready to cross over sometimes
putting it right in front of you makes
it hard to miss right if it's down here
sometimes you might just stop kind of
looking at it so I I'll do this
occasionally and I really encourage this
for beginner Traders okay so we're going
sideways
here and then what happens as we come
into the open we get the crossover do
you see this crossover right here boom
We cross over so we cross back over and
we cross over with strength and look at
this move that we end up getting so we
end up getting a squeeze on this all the
way up here and we stay open the macd
stays open it stays open and we push
higher and higher right so we come up
all the way to this level up here about
620 we start to pull back and then here
we go that's another crossover so if you
imagine focusing on trading this only in
this area here and only in this area
here how do you think you would have
done probably pretty well trading it in
this area here it was sideways this is
not going to pay you we don't make money
buying at five and selling at five or
buying at 380 and selling at 380 we want
to buy at four and sell $5 and we would
love to do that inside of 5 minutes
which is exactly what happened here this
went up over 200% it's about 250% move
this was phenomenal now my feeling is
that if I focus on trading the front
side of the move breaking news first
Spike up that's fine we pull back macd
crosses over again trading this next leg
up that's fine I'm happy to trade the
the beginning the front side of the move
and I want to avoid overtrading when the
macd is against the position so right
here macd is against a position we're
not interested what happens right here
right here the macd begins to cross over
the price starts to pop back up the
price moves above the 9 of the 20 moving
average and then it comes back up to six
now right here when the price popped
back up the macd was still negative
there was nothing to trade right here
when it popped up macd was still
negative right so by this time we had
started to Rally off the low this was
our low point and we'd actually come
back up this much and because we come
back up that much our moving averages
were starting to get back to the
crossover point so now what do you
think's going to happen are we going to
get a false breakout or we going to get
a real breakout based on the position of
the macd we should get a real breakout
and there we go up to seven now we pull
back again we don't cross over we go a
little bit higher this is an area where
oh there we go there's another crossover
now this was I'll admit this was a
bigger pullback here and we almost
crossed over but we didn't quite and
then we came back up so I would forgive
you if you maybe didn't take this trade
here because at this point it was
showing quite a lot of range but then
back you get to this spot here and this
is where in this spot I'd be done I'd
say nope I'm not going to trade that and
when it pops right back Above This is a
high-risk spot and you've got a higher
likelihood of seeing a false breakout
now this did push a little bit higher
but you're always going to do best
focusing on the front side of the move
the beginning of the move so that's
going to be when the news first comes
out and then during the first pullback
now let's look at BNF so this basically
out of nowhere squeezes up and it's kind
of like an example where we have
breaking news except that um this didn't
actually have news it just started to
squeeze up and all of a sudden it
punches higher to 260 the macd is
crossed over uh is positive and is in
favor of the trade so now we watch we
squeeze up to 290 up to three let's see
I'll put this on
Auto we squeeze up to 340 up to 350 we
pull back macd is still open first
pullback do we buy this dip the answer
is yes because the macd is open the macd
is in favor of the trade so those are
dips that we're buying okay we keep
moving forward here we push even higher
right now this is just very strong now
we dip down here and this is a
significant dip and you can see the macd
is starting to come in against the
trade okay now we push a little bit
higher but right there the crossover so
imagine if you stopped trading it right
there and you didn't trade it again for
the rest of the day or at least until
you got another
crossover you would be in good position
for doing that that would have been the
right move right now it start it starts
to come back up but it doesn't cross
over right now right down here you get a
little crossover this at this point this
is later in the day probably wouldn't
have trade of this I like to focus on
trading the front side of the move the
beginning of the move the first pullback
the second pullback now I don't leave
this plotted on here like that I'm just
putting that on there for your benefit
just so you can't miss it just so it's
very obvious this is how I have macd
plotted on my chart so I've got it
plotted right down here and you can see
the way it's moving up like this there
are times where I've changed the
coloring on this and kind of tried to
make it pop a little bit more and that's
fine you could do that but the settings
always stay the same you don't want to
change the settings you start fiddling
with the settings and now you're going
to get different signals from what
everyone else is getting getting now the
people that are using macd will do
better as a result if if they use it
consistently this is one of the biggest
challenges with indicators if you end up
putting 30 indicators on your chart and
you don't check them all before you take
a trade then they're not helpful
checking them periodically or or
checking them intermittently does not
work they work when you follow them on
every single trade you take that's what
you have to do so if you're going to use
macd you got to use it on every trade
and what I would encourage you to do is
use it for a period of a few weeks and
just see does this help me is it helping
me avoid false breakouts is it helping
me remember when to walk away and if it
is you should keep it on your chart now
I've been trading for a long time and
when I first started trading I used macd
I used RSI I used stastics I used a
couple different indicators but I never
really figured out the right way to use
them and So eventually I dropped them
off my chart and for a long time my
charts were very simple because I didn't
have macd on it was just very you know
very pure chart just the candlesticks
and the volume bars and these moving
averages but during the bare Market of
2022 uh when the market pulled back
nearly 30% uh I found that macd was
really helping me avoid false breakouts
because we were seeing a lot of false
breakouts we had a real headwind in the
market it was difficult and I needed to
focus on improving my accuracy so when I
popped macd on I really found it helped
me and I've now kept it on since that
time and I really believe that it helps
me in my trading avoid these false
breakouts now if you want to know a
little bit more about technical analysis
I'll put a link in the uh description
I'll pin it to the top of the comments
that you can download my technical
analysis PDF it's the ultimate technical
analysis guide so it's got chart
patterns indicators stuff all the things
that you need to know if you're
interested in trading the strategy that
I trade so check that out pinned in the
top of the comments and you can download
now when it comes to learning when to
walk away this right here is a book
called quit the power of no Knowing When
to Walk Away by Annie Duke this is
something that helped me quite a bit
this helped me understand that the best
Traders will trade longer and dig deeper
when the Market's hot and will walk away
even if they don't hit their daily goal
when the market is cold so in a sense
daily goals are almost Irrelevant for
really good Traders because they'll they
know that yeah when the Market's hot I'm
going to probably far exceed my daily
goal but when the Market's cold it's
going to be hard to get there and it
wouldn't make sense to try to push
really hard to get that daily goal when
the Market's cold it's just not worth it
it's not worth putting in the fight so I
really encourage you to try to detach
yourself from an amount of money you
need to make every day I think it can be
very dangerous and instead try to shift
your focus to optimizing your efficiency
as a Trader when you're making money at
a high rate per hour those are the days
you should trade more hours on the days
when it's not happening those are the
days it's not worth sticking it out so
learn to walk away sooner and instead of
trying to have as many consecutive green
days in a row as you can which is a
stupid thing to worry about but we often
get very obsessed with it focus on how
many consecutive days in a row you can
maintain discipline because if you can
maintain discipline for 30 40 50 days in
a row without falling victim to
emotional hijack without spiraling you
are going to do very well this is about
focusing on the process the profits are
a byproduct if you enjoyed this episode
I hope you hit the thumbs up I hope you
subscribe the channel make sure you
download My ultimate technical analysis
guide and I'll see you for the next
episode on trading strategy right here
[Music]
