cameroon 

in today's episode I'm going to give you
an in-depth guide into one of my
favorite strategies this is the macd TR
strategy it's a great one for beginner
Traders because the goal is to lock up
profit within a 30 minute window the
idea is that there is a small period of
time when the price action is the
cleanest and that's the time when you
have to be as aggressive as possible to
lock up your gains and not overstay your
welcome right now we're in an incredibly
hot market and although some of you may
watch this weeks from now months from
now or even years from now when the
market is different trading the macd
strategy for me has been like my bread
and butter it has been a go-to strategy
through bull markets and bare markets
alike so let's go ahead and jump into
the screen share and I'm going to pull
up my slide deck here for um for this
class and I want to highlight my profit
loss from today this is real money and
what you can see here here is that I
traded about 12 different stocks and
locked up a total of
$45,000
6542 this right here is my biggest green
day of the year and that's why I wanted
to celebrate it by teaching you guys
this special class and what I can say is
that I feel like a lot of you guys right
now are over complicating it we're
seeing some really nice clean moves but
you know what I'm seeing a lot of you
guys do I'm seeing you under Trade the
beginning of the the move and then
overtrade the backside and manage to
find yourself red on a stock up 500% how
many of you have experienced that in the
last week well just in the last two days
we've had three stocks that went up over
600% so these are some really big
windows and we got to really think
carefully about how we're going to trade
when we have this kind of price action
now whether you trade Forex currencies
you trade uh cryptocurrencies you trade
futures or you're trading stock like I
am we focus as active Traders on trading
volatility right we don't make money
buying something at five and selling it
a few minutes later at 5 we want to buy
something at 5 and we would love to sell
it up here at 10 now getting a 100%
return in you know 5 or 10 minutes that
might not seem very likely but when we
start going over some of the charts and
some of the price action that we've seen
just today you will realize that there
are moments in the market Market where
we see extreme volatility and we see
really big emotions there's no question
that many of you are familiar with
GameStop and The Epic short squeeze that
took place on that stock well everything
that we're seeing right now it's kind of
on a smaller scale from Gamestop but
it's that similar degree of emotion in
the market right now there's a lot of
excitement there's a bit of fear the
fear of missing out and there's a bit of
greed people wanting to capitalize on
the next stock that moves higher and so
learning how to be a successful Trader
requires an ability to read the
sentiment that is in the market right
now I think I did a great job of that
today my leading the stock that I made
the most on was a and this stock
actually went up over 600% today it was
our leading percentage Gaper our leading
percentage Gainer so let's go ahead and
jump into the full screen um here we're
going to start this class those of you
guys who are tuning in uh to this class
this is perhaps one of the first you've
ever watched me teach my name is Ross
Cameron I'm a full-time Trader I've been
doing this for more than a decade in
fact I created this YouTube channel in
2013 11 years ago is when I started
uploading content here so if you enjoy
episodes about trading strategy like
this I hope you hit that thumbs up and I
hope you subscribe to the channel and
what I'm going to do to correspond with
this class is I'm going to give you a
PDF download it's going to be linked in
the top of the comments and in the
description where you can actually
download my small account strategy as a
PDF F download it print it out and start
practicing it on your own but as always
I'm going to remind you right now that
my results are not typical trading is
risky and you should always practice in
a simulator before you put real money on
the line I wish I had done that when I
got started but like a lot of beginner
Traders I jumped in to the deep end and
I ended up losing hard-earned money so
don't make that mistake okay so we're
talking about a 30 minute scalping
strategy and a 30-minute profit window
this is a perfect example here on a from
today so this is the stock in the
background you could see that um this is
the chart where it went from about $2 a
share all the way up to $112 a share and
I locked up just under $330,000 of
profit but you know what there were
Windows when this stock was clean and
this was the right stock to trade and it
was the right time to trade it the
windows were when the Mac D was positive
so I've highlighted them in blue this
window right here was the first and this
window right here was the second on the
first window right here I did well in
fact I did quite well I made about
$118,000 on this profit in this like
window right here so this is our first
30 minute profit window I locked up
18,000 but I gave back a little bit off
the top we went sideways and then
through this window here I scaled up and
this is how I got myself to up $30,000
on a so these were our two windows where
I felt comfortable trading and it was
based on the macd okay okay so let's get
into a little bit more detail about what
we're going to cover in today's class so
we're going to talk about the definition
of macd I'm going to show you how to
configure macd on your charts I'm going
to share with you my macd trading
strategy I'm going to tell you the tools
that are required to trade this strategy
side by side with me I'm going to tell
you the skills that you need to learn
and I'm going to share with you at the
end of this episode some recommended
reading a recommended reading list for
those that want to keep learning okay so
let's start with number one what is macd
macd is a technical indicator used by
active Traders so essentially most
active Traders like you and I are going
to be performing technical analysis
technical analysis means we're reading
Candlestick charts so I'll pull up uh my
Candlestick charts here in the
background so we're reading Candlestick
charts we're analyzing the different
patterns the the shapes of these
individual candles right here and we use
different technical indicators to help
us interpret price action now this is of
course in contrast to Big investors such
as a Warren Buffett someone like Warren
Buffett is not performing technical
analysis he's going to be performing
fundamental analysis so what he's doing
in contrast is he might see a stock like
a and he says um a if I want to buy this
entire company today what am I buying
what am I getting and he's going to pull
up um the SEC filings on a and he's
going to look at their quarterly
earnings and their annual earnings
reports and he's going to try to find
out what's the value of this company and
how does that compare to the current
price that it's trading at and so he's
of course a value investor um there's
many value investors like him um we've
got um Bill Graham and Peter Lynch um
this is um a book by Peter Lynch he was
the head of the mellin fund at Fidelity
Investments during the 90s and really uh
incredible value investor I've got
another book by Benjamin Graham over
here but in any case um the the concept
of value investing is to try to find
something that is really trading far
below its actual Book value and as an
active Trader you and I we don't end up
focusing a lot on that because while
fundamentals matter in the long run what
we know is in the short term prices can
become very disconnected from
fundamentals both to the upside and the
downside in fact we saw both with
GameStop we initially saw that it was
trading at a fraction of what was really
its fair market value back in 2019 and
2020 before the short squeeze began at
that time GameStop was doing $6 billion
doar a year of gross sales and the
market cap valuation of the company was
$250 million they're doing billions of
dollars a year and they're only valued
at$ 250 million which means if you
bought the whole company you could have
bought it for 250 million and then now
at this point it's trading at a multiple
well it's trading it I think um it's
it's doing about5 billion of uh Revenue
but the market cap is now like 11
billion so now it's kind of flipped to
the opposite side it's very uh
overbought so for me what I'm doing each
day is I'm looking for stocks that have
the potential to show us these really
big ranges and give us these really big
moves because as I said I don't make
money buying something that's going
sideways there's a million stocks in the
market not literally but there's
thousands of stocks in the market that
are going sideways on any given day
there's only a handful that are doing
something really special so as an active
Trader I'm going to use technical
analysis to help me better understand
the context of the current price because
if you said Ross I I found this stock
that looks really good and it's $3 a
share I would say okay well give me the
context of that is $3 the all-time high
of the stock or is it the low of the
last 52 weeks right put that price in
context and the chart is what does that
the chart is what gives me the context
so macd it stands for moving average
convergence Divergence indicator right
here macd it's an acronym and it's an
oscillating indicator that's designed to
visually to give a visual communication
of changes in Trend so what that means
is when we actually look at it on a
chart and I'll pop my chart up right
here the macd I have down here um at the
bottom so this is macd right down here
and you can see how it oscillates which
means it's going up and then back down
and then back up and then back down and
then back up and then back down and so
when it's trading up at these extreme
levels here the stock is going to be
very extended and when it's very week
the stock is going to be pulling back so
one of the things that a lot of Traders
will focus on are these shifts from
extremes so from extremely overbought to
oversold overbought to oversold and
looking for those curls off the low and
what's kind of interesting is that to a
certain extent even without looking at
the Candlestick chart you can kind of
understand what's happening with the
Candlestick chart when you go get good
at reading the macd you can clearly see
here that we had an initial move up a
pullback and that we moved higher and
then you can see that weakness came in
and we came down quite a bit now this
would actually make it look like we came
down lower than the initial move and
that's not correct so it's not to scale
but it does show these large shifts in
sentiment which is exactly what we want
to see SO trading when the macd is
positive is far far easier for me than
trading when it's negative and this is
like one of the simplest things that you
can check as a beginner Trader so if
you're pulling up a chart and you're
thinking oh this this is something I
might want to trade one of the first
things I would do is check the macd so
right here for instance if I pulled up
this chart I'd be able to clearly see
that the stock is selling off but
unfortunately in the last couple weeks
especially the last few trading days a
lot of Traders have looked at this and
have thought you know what it's a strong
stock generally speaking
this is my opportunity to buy a dip buy
it when it's pulling back for a curl
back up and what I would argue is that
you are overtrading the backside of the
move so something I want you to help uh
I want to help you understand is uh and
just important Concepts to know so
important Concepts to know so we've
already covered um technical analysis
versus fundamental analysis now I want
to talk about front side versus backside
all right now I don't like to trade the
backside trading the backside is BS it's
backside we don't like the backside why
is it well what I have found is that
when you're trading the front side of
the move that's when you get the most
action okay so what is the front side
the front side is the beginning of the
move as the stock is stair stepping up
once it begins to go sideways we may be
getting ready to stair step down so
stocks essentially they're they Trend
and so I'm going to erase this this is
from a class yesterday that I taught so
when the price is moving up like this
we're trending up and when the price is
going sideways like this of course we're
you know we're trending sideways and
when the price starts stair stepping
down we're trending down so there are
two different styles of trading you can
either be a trend
Trader which is also known as a momentum
Trader a Momo
Trader or so this A or B you could be a
counter Trend Trader
um uh which is also known as someone
who's always angry and frustrated and
has tears running down their face the
reason is because trading against the
trend is really hard it's so much easier
just to trade with the trend then to
trade against it when something is
trending up and it's stair stepping up
you get this predictable price action
and what you look for is to buy these
pullbacks and to ride the next leg up
buy the pullback ride the next leg up
ride the next leg up and then once we
finally get the first candle that makes
a new low and we step down now right
here the trend has changed and we step
off traders who are trying to trade the
backside of the move here to the upside
looking for the the reversal are going
to struggle traders who are shorting who
are looking for the reversal coming back
down are also going to struggle because
these can just continue trending Higher
and Higher and Higher and it's it's just
a lot more difficult for a beginner to
be able to understand when the trend is
exhausted and it's going to roll over
what's more common is that beginner
Traders try to predict the reversal of
trend buying something that's really
weak thinking it's going to turn around
and just goes lower and lower and lower
and the problem problem with this is
that the lower it goes the more they
feel like it's a good deal to add more
shares because the price is even lower
and they get into the habit of averaging
down so now the stock or whatever you're
trading is going lower they're adding
more shares they're adding more shares
they're adding more shares and sometimes
we end up seeing such volatility that
we'll see something go up 100% And then
come all the way back down to where it
was beforehand so it's like trying to
trade as it's trading coming back down
down expecting it to curl again is not
the right move so for me I'm a momentum
Trader all right I don't want to be
trading against the trend so as a
momentum Trader I want to be trading
when we're stair stepping up stair
stepping up like this now this area here
we start to go sideways I don't like to
trade during this sideways
consolidation because ultimately even if
you have a decent range from the bottom
of consolidation to the top you're still
more or less going sideways and when
you're going sideways you know what's
going to decline volume volume declines
because Traders aren't really interested
in trading something just going sideways
they want to be trading something that's
moving quickly so the problem is you get
in here and then you have a hard time
getting out if you need to because the
volume has declined so then finally we
break to the upside and this is where
we're back in play the macd was positive
it went negative and then comes back to
positive and we squeeze back up right
here so let's pull our slide deck back
up here for a second so um so macd
technical indicator moving average
convergence Divergence indicator it's an
oscillator the Crossovers are
significant and trading when macd is
positive is a lot easier for me than
trading when it's negative so just as an
initial gut check if the macd is
negative which is from right here to
here I'm not going to trade it so let me
just full screen this here so when I say
positive or negative this blue line
right here is called the macd and the
orange line is called the signal line
let's go ahead and jump to the next
slide and I'm going to show you how to
configure this on your charts okay so I
didn't mean to jump out of that but
that's fine so the way to configure macd
on your charts you can go to add
indicators and you'll be able to do this
pretty much with almost any uh trading
software almost every platform offers
macd it's a standard indicator that's
been around for a long time time so in
this platform there's this little FX
button and then I can type in macd and I
could click on it right there now once
you click on it you want to make sure
you configure it correctly so I'm going
to double click this but I could also
click on the little settings widget
right here and I want to check the
inputs the fast length is 12 the slow
length is 26 the source is the close and
the signal length is nine all right so
these are our settings right here for
the macd now um let me just make sure I
don't think I I think that was oh and
then the one other thing that I was
going to note is that you'll see that
this is on my one minute time frame so
to get you oriented with what you're
looking at here uh this platform is
called day trade Dash this is the
software that I've built out over the
last seven eight years with my own
development team and it has charts
scanners news feed and it has our chat
rooms and my broadcast at Warrior
trading so the way I lay it out is is I
have four charts 1 2 3 4 and they're all
for the same stock so this is a
10-second chart this is a one minute
chart this is a 5 minute chart and this
is the daily chart this right here is my
little news window where I can see what
the breaking news is on a stock so I
have it set up like this and I actually
only have the macd on my one minute time
frame the reason it's only on my one
minute time frame is because I am primar
a One Minute Trader but I call this the
30 minute profit window because once the
macd opens right here which was at about
8:46 it stayed open for about 30 minutes
the reason I figure 30 minutes is
because as part of my strategy and I'll
show this to you uh as we get a little
bit further into the class but just to
give you sort of a a brief demonstration
to help you understand why I choose this
when a stock starts breaking out we'll
usually get three four maybe five green
candles going up and then we'll get a
couple candles to pull back like this so
each of these are one minute Candles now
we're 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 minutes into the
move so first entry could be down here
and now we're 1015 minutes into the move
second pullback is right here and then
we're pushing up here and then usually
what we find is the third pullback ends
up being a false breakout and I'm not
just saying that because I'm running out
of the Whiteboard it's actually true so
usually I find that I do the best
trading the first pullback right here
and the second pullback right here and
not trading it up here and this is going
to correspond with right here is where
the macd opens and then right about here
is going to be uh kind of where it
closes so this is the window when it's
open from here to here and generally for
most stocks we have a window of you know
about 30 minutes when we've got some
really clean trading with look with some
stocks it's a little longer with some
stocks it's a little shorter but it's
usually about a 30 minute window and
that's the window to try to make as much
money as you can before you get that
first macd crossover once you get that
first macd crossover for a lot of stocks
that can be it you got one window it's
crossing over and then from that point
forward the stock is choppy it's not
clean it's not easy to trade now as the
case was with a we got a second window
that opened up so it did make this first
200% move and then it goes sideways and
then we get the second breakout here
which was actually even bigger which is
how I was able to have such a great day
but then after that window closed we
really didn't get another opportunity
now you could say what about back here
technically the macd went positive and
you are correct it's a very um very good
observation however let's go back over
here
we want to trade the front side of the
move so the front side of the move means
the stock should be making new highs
around the time when we're trading it so
if we were trading right here this is
not going to be making new highs from
this level down here so B in order for
it to be making new highs of course it
has to be way up here so even if the
macd goes positive but we're not making
new highs I would say it's no good so as
the case turned out for this I initially
thought it was possible that this was
the top of the front side of the move
but during this period of consolidation
we were holding in approximately the top
you know 10 15% of the entire move let's
say that's 15% right there so when a
stock is consolidating at the very top
of its range that is usually bullish for
a breakout to the next level and it's
actually what we would call a bull flag
that's forming now if you haven't
already watched my episode on how to
trade bull Flags you're welcome to check
that out um after this episode it's
another really good full length class
that's right here on YouTube uh so
anyway so up here the problem
was this is the next leg up and if we
measure it here from this low down here
up to this high up here you know we've
got a move from $5 to 12 but we pulled
back all the way to seven right so we're
down at like the 30% Mark we needed to
at least hold the 50% line and we pulled
back too much now some Traders will use
um an actual retracement measurement
tape to see what percentage it's pulled
back I don't get that detailed on it
this is for me is close enough but I can
visually see that we've pulled back too
much so although we got the crossover
down here um the stock at this point was
just it was not set up to make new highs
and I felt like we were in fact on the
back side of the move now the second
stock that I traded quite well today was
slrx so let's pull that up really
quickly just to compare um these two
charts so this is a stock that gave us a
30-minute profit window right around
here and look at the incredible volume
and that was it that was the window it
was right here and then once we got that
macd crossover right here you know it
just pulled back now the way a macd
crossover occurs and I I suppose to
better explain how this technical
indicator functions the moving average
convergence Divergence indicator is
measuring the distance between moving
averages so if we looked at we'll zoom
in here on
this if you look at these moving
averages right
here the and we go into the settings
here um it has two it's got the fast
length which is the 12 and the slow
length which is the 26 so these are the
two moving averages that it's using and
it's measuring whether these moving
averages oops sorry are moving apart
which means they're
diverging and if they're diverging it's
because the fast moving average is
pulling away from the slow moving
average and that happens when the price
makes a rapid move higher so down here
we could see and I'll just make this um
let's see we'll go change
visibility I'm just going to make this I
want to just make it bold for you for a
second um so we're going to make this
one bold and we're going to make this
one bold just to really help them pop so
there we
go all right so look at these two
indicators these are both moving
averages see how they're close together
right here so right here they would be
converged right so converging moving
together diverging moving apart and the
space between them got bigger and then
it got a little tighter right here
because we went sideways and you could
see it got a little tighter and then it
pulls apart and this was the biggest
sort of difference right in there as the
stock went from $4 to 650 so we get that
big Divergence right there and then all
of a sudden the price starts to come
back down and as the price comes back
down that fast moving average the fast
moving average is taking the average
price over the last 12 periods so when
the price starts coming down that moving
average starts coming down as well the
slow moving average is slower to move so
what ends up happening is the the is the
fast one gets closer to the slow one and
they converge so Divergence convergence
and when they cross over right there
that is a big big indicator that the
trend has shifted so we got this
crossover identifies a little bit sooner
just because the way the macd calculates
which is fine but that's the spot where
I pay close attention we got a crossover
so now the beginning of that window is
closed and as the price goes you know
pulls back in this area there's always a
question of you know will we get another
leg higher and in this case again if we
look at the percentage of this move from
here up to here we were holding about
the 50% Mark until right here we broke
down so when we broke down right there
we were we were pre previously holding
this level if you drew an ascending
support line right around here we were
kind of holding there we had a little
bit of a descending resistance line sort
of right in here and then we broke below
it on this candle high volume selling
because this was the moment where people
said you know what I got to bail out I'm
out this is not going to go so for me I
would have been out much sooner because
of the macd crossover that happened way
back here so I traded the front side of
this move as aggressively as I could I
made
$855 on it which was decent but
considering it went from $2 to $7 it
wasn't really that huge of a move or a
huge of a game for me but nonetheless it
was it was a solid green trade okay so
now you also have a good understanding
of what the macd is communicating so
when the price is moving fast the macd
is moving up when the price begins to
slow down and even retrace the macd will
also start to turn against and then
eventually we get the actual crossover
all right so let's talk about my macd
trading strategy how I approach actually
um executing these trades so my goal is
as always to focus on aggressively
trading the front side of the move
before we have that first macd crossover
because I don't know whether or not
we're going to get a second leg to the
upside in a really hot market like what
we had today we did get that on a couple
of stocks but but not on all of them it
was only a few of them that really gave
us that second leg higher and there were
a number of others that just gave us
that one first move and what I've seen a
lot of Traders do is they kind of trade
this to conserv atively CU they're like
oh it's extended I don't know uh not
really sure but these are all really
clean pullbacks and then in this area
they end up continuing to trade it
hoping it kind of rallies back up but
now you're trading the back side of the
move like it's kind of you know McD's
crossed over we're moving in the wrong
direction this isn't what I want to see
okay so step one for me is I need to
find a stock that's volatile and that's
moving so so I use uh stock scanners to
help me find those stocks step two is
performing some basic fundamental
analysis step three is the technical
analysis step four is where I execute my
buy and sell orders and then step five
is where I analyze my trading metrics
all right so let's go through each one
of these steps this is going to walk you
through uh really kind of the way my day
plays out and we're going to start with
a today as uh we're going to use this as
a case study to go kind of hand inand
with um this class all right so let's
see um so I'll put this on the side so
Step One is finding that big percentage
Gainer I don't make money buying and
selling stocks that are break even I
make money when stocks are moving so
this morning um let's see let's switch
back to
a first of all I think it's worth um
noting that each morning when I sit down
I'll often uh ask this question of did
you eat well did you sleep well what's
the state of the overall market and if
the market is strong you have stocks
that you like how are you going to
adjust your risk for today so for me
when I sat down I was thinking just
yesterday we had a stock that went up
695 per. the stock was m and I had a
really solid uh Green Day on it almost
double my daily goal this is the chart
So Yesterday Mi goes from about 70 a
share all the way up to
$548 that was the high what an
incredible move so because we just had
that big move yesterday I was expecting
that there would be quite a lot of fomo
in the market that Traders would be
getting really amped up really excited
and that most likely people would be
looking for the next stock that had the
potential to make this kind of move I
mean wouldn't you right we that's what
we're looking for so when I first sat
down this morning
um I was going through the scans and I
honestly didn't see a lot that looked
great s so was one of our leading
gappers it had made a move after hours
of about 100% yesterday but pre-market
it was already coming back down so this
is just looking at the F minute chart
and I could put the macd on here but
certainly the macd was negative even
though I'm not trading on the five
minute time frame is very clear that
this is not something I'd be interested
in trading um there were a couple other
lower price stocks that were on the
scans uh let's see in fact what was my
first trade let me go back here um my
first trade today was actually on wrnt
that's right forgot about that so wrnt
look at this um I was happy to trade it
this morning because right here where I
got in we were trading front side of the
move right macd is open we could go back
on the one minute but it's going to be
the same it's going to be open on the on
the one minute as well so macd was open
we're moving higher and I was happy to
trade it but when it couldn't hold $1 a
share which is a critical level of
psychological resistance for a lot of
these stocks at that point I said all
right I've got to um I've got to I've
got to cut it Loose I've got to let it
go so ended up letting it go and only
made uh actually on that first uh stock
$27.16 right there so it's like nothing
particularly exciting but hey that
breaks the ice all right so then my next
trade um let's see was um I did de trade
on mea today I got a little bounce on
that and then I got another trade on
another stock that was popping up and
let me pull up where I had my first
trade on ad uh a so a I took my first
trade on this at uh $2 this morning a
really solid initial entry so
a this stock hits my scanners you see
right now how um this stock rgc is
hitting the scanner at um
$324 so this scanner is searching the
market in real time for stocks that are
moving and so this is how I'm finding
the stock so a hits my scanner this
morning and it would have been uh
basically the second that news came out
right down here which was at about 8 I
guess it was maybe 8:30 that the news
came out something like that and then it
kind of started creeping higher and then
right here it punched higher from $1.70
$180 $190 and the macd is moving the
volume is increasing and I jumped in at
$2 in fact I saw um one of our um
members he's had a trade he bought a
th000 shares at $2 and he was still
holding that thousand shares when the
price came up to $12 a share I was like
that's unbelievable so he had one entry
and then I don't know one exit that's
not how I usually trade these usually
the way I trade these is I jump in I'm
happy to take some profit if we get a
squeeze up to 250 and three which I did
right here so I was up about $4,000 on
this first trade it pulls back it comes
back up and I'm taking the next trade
we'll talk about the actual execution of
the trades in a second but first the way
I found the stock so I found the stock
on my scanner and as soon as I see a
stock hitting my scan I do my quick due
diligence of whether or not this stock
meets my criteria for being the type of
stock I like trading now I have another
full length episode on my stock
selection process and how I qualify
whether or not something is worth
trading but to give you the cliffnotes
version I'm looking at a couple of key
elements um I'll erase this okay so
number one for stock selection um
specifically um on the
scanners all right I'm going to switch
pens so number one I know that I do
better between two and 20 in terms of
price right so price of 2 and 20 is kind
of my sweet spot where I find the most
uccess I know the stock has to be up 10%
already at a minimum if it's not up at
least 10% then I won't even consider it
and I like to see that it has a relative
volume that one's my goodness relative
volume of five times which means the
volume right now is five times higher
than it would normally be at that time
of the day on this stock so the high
hang on one second hey
go over
here sorry about that so uh anyways so
those who are familiar that was not June
that was Bo he's um my other dog anyways
so stock scanners here all right so 2
and 20 up 10% on the day relative volume
of five times or higher and then we've
got uh float oh actually let's do um
news I like I prefer to see if the stock
has news breaking news news headline and
then number five I like to see the
float is
under 20 million shares generally
speaking if the float is higher than 20
million shares I won't consider it so
these are the five criteria that I look
at to evaluate whether or not a stock is
worth trading so this morning when a hit
my scanners I was like all right price a
little cheaper right it's about $1.75
$180 but given that we've seen a lot of
momentum on these lower PRC stocks in
the last few trading sessions I expected
we would see momentum on this one again
and so or this price range so I was
happy to trade it next check was a
percentage change on the day it was
already up at least 10% check relative
volume was next and although I don't
remember the relative volume was it was
moving quickly and that's what I liked
seeing I saw that there was a news
headline and I saw that the float or the
number of shares available to trade was
uh showing 640,000 shares according to
our Market data vendor right here so
based on all of that the stock met my
criteria for being worth trading and
that is really the extent of the my
process of deciding whether or not I'm
going to take a trade at least not
whether or not I'm going to take a trade
but whether or not the stock is worthy
of consideration so that's step one and
step two is where I check the news and I
did check the news headline I saw we had
fresh news on it this morning and then
step three is performing technical
analysis so when I'm performing
technical analysis the first thing I
check well let me think about this for
one quick second so when I first pull up
a chart the first the very first thing I
look at is this one minute time frame
right here so if I pull up this this
chart here the very first thing I look
at is is right here and in this case you
know we can see all right um you know
the price on this has kind of popped up
but what we would also be able to notice
pretty quickly is that it it's pretty
light volume because there's a lot of
candles that are just sideways sideways
sideways sideways sideways sideways
sideways so a lot of kind of light
volume candles where it's not really
moving that much you see that I don't
really love that and then we push up
there to
2115 now if I'm okay with this then from
there I look down here and actually the
next thing I just noticed was China
anytime I see a stock that is a Chinese
company sometimes it's obvious in the
name other times I have to actually look
at the headlines I I'm a little bit more
skeptical because we've seen a lot of
Chinese pump and dumps in the market and
although you can ride that wave of
momentum you have to be careful because
you don't know when they're going to
pull the rug so then the next thing I do
is I take a look a quick look at the
daily chart so here what I'm looking at
is the position of the 200 moving
average the 200 is a150 here so we're
above the 200 moving average and then I
look to the left this way and I look up
to see where do we have nearby
resistance maybe the top of that candle
and something that I do that's a little
different from what other people do is
if I Mark the top of that
candle I'm not going to look at anything
below it basically I view this as
casting a shadow back and all of this
area is is uh disregarded and the reason
is because it's already broken through
that price it broke through it now there
are some exceptions to that but this is
a general rule of thumb that this is now
this is a trigger at 230 that gives us
room up to well we got to look to the
left and up so in this case we've got
some small little candles here and then
we have a bigger trigger maybe up in
this area that trigger at 35 four gives
us room to the left and up and again to
better understand how to read
Candlestick charts you could check out
my episode on um on reading Candlestick
charts from zero which goes into the
daily charts the shadow Theory and um a
number of other Concepts so on a when I
first pull it up that's the process
basically I check the one minute it
looks clean and then I'm looking at the
daily and I'm seeing on The Daily the
200 moving average is way up here at 27
bucks and I also notice it's a recent
reverse split you see that stock that s
that means this is a stock split of 30
to1 on July 1st and that's why the float
is so low because the company recently
did the stock split so they've got a
reverse stock split I check the stock
and you could pull up the headline you
could check the news and you can also
see where is it located Branford
Connecticut all right so just east of uh
New Haven and you can see it's a early
stage clinical bio bio pharmaceutical
company company focused on developing
therapies Precision Dermatology Etc so
what we also know is that pharmaceutical
stocks can be very hot this is a sector
that typically performs well it's a US
company which is more going to be more
trustworthy than a Chinese company
certainly um not a guarantee that it's
going to go up but um but but just
noteworthy and from that point I'm
thinking all right are there any levels
on The Daily recently that are a factor
and that's when I noticed something very
interesting check this
out so I noticed that there is this Gap
right here so back in February the stock
uh sold off this day and then gapped way
down here and ended up going sideways
and the top of that Gap was at about
$8.85 it came back up to the top here it
tried here and tried here and so what I
realized was that if we break through
$885
we have no resistance until
$24.21 the bottom of this Gap this is
called Gap fill again this is part of
technical analysis and understanding how
to read Candlestick charts so once I saw
this I was like all right that that gets
very exciting but initially when I was
first trading it I just saw this is
basically having very light volume
through this period and because it has
light volume I didn't really think there
would be a lot of bag holders a bag
holder is someone who does not have
discipline in their trading they take a
position the price drops and they keep
holding maybe they keep adding they keep
hoping it'll turn around and they're
just holding and holding and holding the
problem is when those Traders are in a
position for a long time sometimes
they'll just throw out a sell order at
some optimistic price they'll be like oh
I got it if I could just get out at $4
I'd be flat on this trade so they put
the sell order at $4 it's good till
canel and just sit there in the market
they might not even be full-time Traders
they might be out running errands
whatever whatever and then the stock
boom has news pops up and that order
gets picked up however those orders are
only live starting at 9:30 a.m. good to
cancel orders are 9:30 a.m. to 400 p.m
so any price action that occurs
pre-market or after hours is going past
above those orders which is kind of
crazy but that's just the way it works
so I was concerned right at 9:30 at the
opening bell that we could have some
profit takers or bag holders sell but
given the recent daily chart on this
with the light volume I didn't think it
was a very big risk so now I've done my
technical analysis on the daily chart
I've gotten kind of a good sense of how
it looks and I'm looking at the one
minute chart for my first entry and I'm
actually going to pull up um the
10-second chart remember we've got a 30
minute window here so once the price
starts to pull away we've got a window
and my goal is to lock up and as much
profit as I can on this stock and then
stop trading it and look for the next
one so I'm not going to trade this one
stock all day long I'm going to trade it
while the windows open and then I'm
going to look for the next one so we get
this initial popup right here and that
was the first trade so do you see how we
popped up and we have a micro pullback
right there so now we're going to move
into step four which is executing the
trade so step four is where I'm actually
going to have my order entry window
right here so we'll type it in for
and I'm going to have my um my window
right here just like
that so what I'm doing here is I click
on the ask price which right now is 5.42
and then I've got my shares right here
and now I'm ready to press the buy
button so I bought 2500 shares with my
first order and I filled at $2 and then
I decided I wanted to add to the
position so I added at 2011 and I added
again at
212 all right so so now I've got an
average of about 204 and we squeeze from
2 up to about 220 we drop down we pop
back up we drop down we pop back up and
then right here we break through this
High that's a breakout setup so I ended
up adding on this let's see at um 225
for the Breakthrough this level added at
225 we get squeeze up to 230 it pulls
back and as it breaks the high here I'm
adding again do you see how we're stair
stepping higher we're St stepping higher
so I'm adding we get the break higher
I'm adding we get the break higher and
honestly on this move right here I
thought we were going to go through $3
pull back and we were just going to keep
going I was a little surprised it came
all the way back down to 240 on higher
volume selling so that put me a little
bit on notice there for a second I was
like I don't know
this should have done a little bit
better than that so it ends up dipping
down kind of going sideways here and
then it rallies back up this is a
pattern that we call the cup and handle
so this is a cup formed by a double top
it's a u shape and then the handle is
sideways consolidation and then that's
where I'm taking that breakout trade
there for the move up to three we go to
three 310 320 340 350
360 amazing 20% in two in two 10-second
candles 20 seconds then we drop back
down and then we pop back up to 380 and
then we pull back and then this is the
area where where it started to get
interesting we're sort of grinding here
right and then we start to pull away we
squeeze up to four we push a little bit
higher we pull back and then we pull
away with a little bit more volume here
up to 440 450 460 up to
480 and so through this area I'm just
continuing to trade it and I'm locking
up profit I'm buying on dips I'm taking
profit into the move higher I'm buying
on dips I'm adding on the breakout and
I'm just actively trading it this is
also going to cross over a bit with the
one minute Scout strategy that I've
taught a number of classes on SO trading
you know this tight consolidation at
this point stops getting interesting I'm
thinking this is going sideways here now
it's time to wait all right so this is
the spot where it's exciting and this is
where we start to slow down now I use
the 10-second chart because it's a it's
a good way for you to visualize what's
happening on something that's moving
very quickly this is very fast action
and sometimes the one minute doesn't
quite do it justice so you could if you
wanted to and you have 10-second charts
you could put the macd on it um but it
looks like you're getting you're getting
some crossovers that are not actually
helpful so I I I don't do it and it
looks like it probably wouldn't be that
great of an idea to keep it on there so
I keep it on the one minute chart but
I'm executing sometimes on the 10sec
especially when I'm studying level two
so what I really need is I need my level
two I need my time in sales I've got my
order entry window right here and then
of course I have my hot keys my hot Keys
allow me to buy and sell just by
pressing a button just like that it's so
fast you can get in and out of the
market lightning quick um let's see we
have a test symbol but that one's too
expensive um let's see so just I'll just
do a trade on this so I'm just going to
do um let's see I'll just put this up
here right here so you can see this here
for a second um all right so so I'm
going to go um shift one right there and
instantly I'm in this with 250 shares
you see how it's
instantaneous instantaneous now I put my
order on the offer right here I've got a
sell order out and I just filled at 41
for
$2.50 it's just instant these orders are
so fast and that's what I really like
about this software so you can see the
trade there I was in at um 39 out at 40
and I did that just by pressing two
buttons so let me just grab something
real quick for you to
see okay so this right here um is my uh
my spare my spare
keyboard and you could see that some of
these keys are a little worn out so
contrl X is to sell a quarter position
control sorry contrl Ctrl X is sell half
contrl Z is sell full contrl k contrl l
these are selling on the ask which add
liquidity shift one shift two shift
three these are hot keys for buying
buying on the ask so as quickly as I'm
typing you know I could type A and then
I could type shift one shift one shift
one I'm in you know 3,000 shares
whatever and then control K I've got
half on the ass control Q cancel the
order contrl X sell half on the bid
shift one add back a th contrl K sell on
the ass contrl P 10cent profit Target
contrl B stop it break even contrl x uh
sell half control Z sell the rest right
contr Q cancel any open orders and it's
that fluid now the reason I trade with
this or or with a um a trackpad here is
because of how tight this has to be
everything here has to be really tight I
don't want to reach for a mouse I want
to be able to move really quickly so
quickly move my mouse from the buy
button to the sell button if I'm
entering using the order entry window
and I will use this order entry window
from time to time if I have time I will
enter it uh here the reason I like this
is because I could say you know I want
to get in at I could type my shares
whatever I want to get in at 41 or 40
and I click that buy button and my order
is just going to sit there it's just
going to sit there and wait I'm waiting
and waiting and waiting so I just have
to wait now if I get filled I get filled
if I don't get filled I don't get filled
I sit there and wait so then I'll cancel
my order right so if you just press the
hotkey of shift one you you'll fill
pretty much no matter what because of
the way the order is scripted to buy at
the ask plus 10 cents that's okay for a
fast moving stock but you just got to be
careful um you know if you've got a lot
a big spread on something so all right
so let's back up out of this for one
second um and we'll pull the slides back
up so step um so step four is executing
the trade and on a I had a to I mean
gosh I I took I just traded the whole
way up but what you would see when you
look at those trades is that the area
where I traded it was very aggressively
front side here macd open stopped
trading it very aggressively right here
stopped trading it and I'm looking for
something else and I think what a lot of
people get sucked into is just
continuing to trade the same stock again
and again and again and they end up
overtrading the backside of the move and
I said you know what what I'd be better
off doing is leaving this alone and
waiting for the next one and next thing
you know slrx is squeezing up and at
10:30 when asrt or whatever was going
sideways this one starts pulling away
and goes from $2 to seven bucks so
doesn't it make more sense to just focus
on trading the front side of whatever is
currently squeezing than to just get so
fixated on trading the same stock all
day long that's what I think is better
so that's the way I approach it so at
that point I stopped trading um a
completely and I think I was up I was up
32,000 on the day at that point I was up
32,000 on the day when I stopped trading
actr so hey still a really good day but
I was like you know I don't need to give
back profit on actr so let me look for
something else to trade I traded
aggressively you know I I took so you
can see I traded 20 two 277,000 shares
so this would have been um gosh so today
I would have had uh probably 20 trades
30 trades with 5 to 10,000 shares and a
couple that were bigger you just keep
doing that as the move goes higher and
you're going to turn your shares it's
fine it's not like it's one entry one
exit it's just total trading but then I
said all right I'm going to look for the
next one then we got slrx we got efsh we
got Adil pghl right so pghl this was
another one um we got a nice front side
of the move on this right through here
this actually I P today then it went
from $4 up to 10 uh but on this one
here's something that's
interesting by the time the macd crossed
over it had already gone from 450 up to
10 but you didn't get the crossover
until it was back at 6 so if you waited
for the crossover to exit you would have
held too long so I don't wait for the
crossover to exit but once we have a
crossover I don't want to trade it
anymore so I want to trade on the front
side as it's moving up and I want to
take profit as it's squeezing up you
know and then let it dip down and then
look for that next dip for the next
trade now this chart is very hard to
trade which is why I really didn't make
that much money on it I'm up um let's
see $1600 it was a small winner in total
uh and that's fine you know there was
another one today rgc which is currently
up
430 this one was up 600 for a moment
also basically impossible to trade
volume is too light it's just not easy
to trade cjet right now hitting the
scans so this one pop dropped earlier
came back up to 4 450 to 5 let's see
where it's located
cjet so Grand Cayman um chaiet Chet I
don't know Motor Company never heard of
them um 2001 based in Grand Grand
Cayman uh so it's BAS in Grand Cayman
but you know that doesn't look like the
name of someone who's based in Grand C
in so you know a lot of these companies
where they're actually located where
they where the the companies registered
is different than where they do their
business let's see oh this was a spa
special acquisition company into a
merger
okay China
People's Republic of China so for that
reason you know this is one that
probably wouldn't trust unfortunately
just we you know we we know the game and
if you haven't checked out my episode on
um these Chinese stocks I've got another
pretty interesting episode on that but
uh yeah so okay so then so step four is
to execute the trades and the way that
I'm going to focus on trading these is
buying the pull backs so if you haven't
checked out the episode on the one
minute scalping strategy or buying those
pullbacks definitely check that out
there's also some details on this
strategy in my small count strategy PDF
which is linked down in the bottom uh in
the comments in the description and then
step five is when we get into analytics
so it's very important that you review
your
progress so right here I have these
analytics where I can actually track
this is $12.8 million of gross profit
I'll remind you right now my results not
typical there's no guarantee you'll find
a similar result as me so please take it
slow um but 12.8 million uh here in
gross profit and so what I could do is I
can analyze my trades based on the time
of day based on the day of the week
based on the price of the stock and all
of this is super super valuable
information as you're trying to figure
out what in your strategy is working so
today uh I import my trades at the end
of the day uh actually it's the next day
day that they that I can import them so
I can't import these right now I have to
wait till tomorrow um but I'll be
interested to see what my metrics look
like um for today my guess is that I
have pretty good accuracy probably above
70% I'm green on all the stocks I traded
my profit loss ratio is probably pretty
solid I had a couple of losses but they
weren't that big and I had some really
nice big Winners so positive profit loss
ratio these are the things that we kind
of pay attention to when we're looking
at metrics we want to look at your
profit loss ratio you want to look at
your accuracy you want to look at your
hold time and you want to be able to
look at this both for um winners and
losers so what's your average hold time
for winners what's the average hold time
for losers profit loss ratio percentage
and then uh price where you've done best
volume and then other metrics that kind
of play into what we already know about
stock selection because ultimately your
metcs are going to help reaffirm for you
what is working in your trading so if
this is if these are your metrics let's
just I'm going to use an example here
I'm going to go to a month where I
didn't do so well so let's look custom
range at um March all right so this is
not a great month for me it it's a
little embarrassing I don't want to show
it to you but I I will so finished month
um of March with
$20,000 um but you could see I lost
money on stocks over 20 I I just I had
this little window where I did well and
then everything else was sort of poor
and if we look at um performance by time
of day you'll also see that I didn't do
well on Monday and Tuesday and I also
didn't do well early and I didn't do
well late I did well kind of in the
middle of my window and so what I
decided to do then was after that um
performance I was like you know what for
April I need to do better I'm going to
take my metrics and I'm going to learn
from them and so in April I focused on
trading during the time when I usually
do better I did still lose a little bit
towards the end of the day but not as
bad and then I focused on trading in the
price range where I had done well in the
previous month because I said right now
I need to go back to basics and focus on
what I know is working I want to really
encourage you guys to do that focus on
what you know is working focus on the
right stocks to trade we had some great
ones today I bet we're going to have
some more really good ones in the coming
weeks the coming months so for those of
you guys T tuning in I hope you found
this episode super valuable I hope you
hit that thumbs up I hope you subscribe
to the channel and hey if you want to
check out a twoe trial at Warrior
trading there'll be a link posted in the
comments and in the top of the
description and I also have the link
where you can download my uh small
account PDF so check those things out
and I want to thank you as always for
tuning in and you know what the
recommended reading I didn't quite get
to it so what I'll do is I'll put a
video right here of my recommended
reading list so check that out and I'll
see you guys for the next episode real
